Prepare to Teach
Your purpose in teaching the commandments is to help people live the gospel by exercising faith in Jesus Christ and repenting as they prepare for baptism and confirmation and to help them remain faithful after baptism.
Help those you teach understand that enduring to the end includes keeping the commandments of God.
By obeying the commandments, people will grow in their testimony of the gospel, show that they have “broken hearts and contrite spirits,” and begin to repent of all their sins (see Moroni 6:1–4 ; Doctrine and Covenants 20:37 ).
This lesson is organized differently from the first three.
The first three lessons explain the doctrinal foundation for the gospel of Jesus Christ.
This lesson explains specific commandments God has given that help us apply gospel principles in our lives.
There are many ways to teach this lesson.
The approach you take should be determined by the needs, interests, and situation of the people you teach and the direction of the Spirit.
Prayerfully decide what to teach and which invitations to extend.
Be mindful of the questions and level of understanding of those you teach.
Constantly think and pray about how to help them live the gospel.
Ideas include:
Teaching one or more commandments as part of another lesson.
When doing so, consider the principle taught in Alma 12:32 : “God gave unto them commandments, after having made known unto them the plan of redemption” (italics added).
Certain commandments, such as prayer and scripture study, might be taught best as part of the first three lessons.
Other commandments might be best taught after you have laid the doctrinal foundation of the gospel found in the first three lessons.
Teaching two or three of the commandments as a single lesson.
Teaching a single commandment as a lesson.
Teaching the commandments in the context of the gospel.
Briefly review the lesson on the gospel of Jesus Christ before teaching one or more of the commandments.
As you do so, you can help people see how the commandments fit into the larger picture of exercising faith in the Savior and repenting in preparation for baptism and confirmation.
Their lives can be blessed as they see the gospel of Jesus Christ as a pattern for living.
You may be able to teach some people in a few visits; others may require more visits.
You have the flexibility to teach the lessons in whatever way best helps people fully prepare for their baptism and confirmation.
Your purpose is not only to cover the material; it is to help others come unto Christ through faith in Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
Rarely should a lesson go over 45 minutes.
You may find that time may only allow shorter teaching visits.
In this case, you may need frequent, short teaching visits covering smaller portions of material.
There are many ways you may approach teaching this lesson.
Which commandment you teach, when you teach it, and how much time you give to it is best determined by the needs of the people you teach and the direction of the Spirit.
