Ask Questions
Jesus Christ often asked questions to help people ponder and apply principles.
His questions prompted thought, soul searching, and commitment.
Good questions will help you understand interests, concerns, or questions that others have.
They can enhance your teaching, invite the Spirit, and help people learn.
Poor questions can intimidate, irritate, and offend people.
They can also cause you to lose control of the teaching situation.
Try to ask questions that:
Are simple and easy to understand.
Help people think about what you are teaching.
Help you determine how well they understand what you are teaching.
Help people apply what they learn.
As those you teach respond to these types of questions, they will feel that they can talk openly.
Good questions can lead people to ask you questions when they don’t understand, when they have a concern, or when they want to know what to do.
Good questions can help those you teach share their feelings and by so doing discover a growing testimony.
Examples of effective questions include:
What questions do you have about what we have taught?
Do you believe that Heavenly Father loves you?
Why?
How do we sometimes make the same error as the people in this story?
To help those you teach prepare to answer questions, you may want to say, “As I explain the importance of keeping the Sabbath day holy, ask yourself, ‘What does this commandment mean to me?’” Avoid asking questions that:
Include more than one idea.
Pertain to doctrine you have not yet taught.
Do not have a clear purpose.
Interrogate and pry unnecessarily.
Asking too many questions, especially in your first visit, gives the impression that you are conducting an “interrogation.” Do not ask people to give specific answers about unimportant or obvious details.
This will turn a good teaching environment into a game of guessing.
When you need a specific answer, it is best to ask a factual question or present the information in some other way.
Avoid asking questions that might embarrass someone if they do not know the answers.
Questions are most useful when asked after you have taught and testified about a key principle.
Following are examples of less-effective questions:
Who was the first prophet?
(Asked before teaching about dispensations.)
How will keeping our bodies pure help us have the Spirit and show that we are willing to follow a prophet of God?
(More than one idea.)
Is it important to know about God’s commandments?
(Yes-no answer and too obvious.)
How do you feel about the Book of Mormon?
(Before they have read it.)
What is something we can do every day that will help us feel close to God?
(Vague question looking for a specific answer: pray.)
Who was the next prophet after Noah?
(Asking them to guess.)
Image Bring forth the record
© 1985 Robert T.
Barrett.
Do not copy.
© 1985 Robert T.
Barrett.
Do not copy.
Learn to ask questions as prompted by the Spirit.
The right type of question at the right time can greatly help those you teach to learn the gospel and feel the Spirit.
Likewise, the wrong type of question or a question at the wrong time can interfere with their learning.
Asking appropriate questions at the right time requires that you are in tune with the Spirit, that you listen to those you are teaching, and that you focus throughout the teaching experience.
Effective teaching can be hard work and requires concentration and effort on the part of you and your companion.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
What might happen to an individual’s progress if he or she encountered the following situations and you never found out about them?
Coworkers who regularly make fun of spiritual things.
Family members who are strong members of another church.
Friends who believe that the Mormons are a non-Christian cult.
A spiritual experience in reading from the Book of Mormon.
Think of a question that you would ask to learn more about each of the situations above.
Write your questions in your study journal.
Discuss with your companion how you might improve the questions each of you wrote for this activity.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
What might happen to an individual’s progress if he or she encountered the following situations and you never found out about them?
Coworkers who regularly make fun of spiritual things.
Family members who are strong members of another church.
Friends who believe that the Mormons are a non-Christian cult.
A spiritual experience in reading from the Book of Mormon.
Think of a question that you would ask to learn more about each of the situations above.
Write your questions in your study journal.
Discuss with your companion how you might improve the questions each of you wrote for this activity.
