Helping Others Understand Repentance and Addiction Recovery
You may be asked to answer questions and concerns about addiction.
You may also want to help people find answers to difficult questions related to these problems.
The best thing you can do is to refer them to local priesthood leaders and encourage them to become familiar with the Church’s online Addiction Recovery Program.
You may also want to encourage local Church leaders to access this same resource.
Local leaders can also refer to the Church’s Provident Living website.
Image Touch of faith
© 2000 Simon Dewey.
Do not copy.
© 2000 Simon Dewey.
Do not copy.
Here are a few suggestions regarding how you can show love and support for those struggling to overcome addiction:
Reinforce their efforts to come unto Christ.
Help them see that their efforts to recover and heal are recognized and valued by Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ and that they can be strengthened through the Savior and His Atonement.
He fully recognizes the intent of their heart to do good.
Pray for them both in your personal prayers and in your prayers with them.
As appropriate, encourage them to seek a priesthood blessing from local priesthood leaders.
Continue teaching them the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Teach them that Heavenly Father, the Savior, and the Holy Ghost love them and want their success.
Encourage them to attend church regularly and develop friendships with members.
Be positive and supportive—especially if they relapse.
Latter-day Saints can best help new members remain active by being their friends.
Members should reach out to those you are teaching and to new converts with a warm, positive attitude.
Visitors and new converts will often respond favorably when greeted with a smile, when sincerely asked about how they are doing, when others sit by them during meetings, and when they are invited to a family dinner or home evening.
Because it is likely that some people may return to an addiction, priesthood leaders and members should not be shocked or discouraged if they learn that someone you are teaching or a new member may be struggling with such problems.
They should show love toward the individual and not be judgmental if the person yields to an old craving.
They should treat it as a temporary and understandable setback.
Condemning the person being taught or the new convert is never helpful and may lead to discouragement, feelings of failure, and inactivity.
A new convert who suddenly stops attending church may have given in to an old addiction and may be feeling unworthy and discouraged.
An immediate visit giving encouragement and support can help the person succeed.
Members should show in word and action that the Church is a place where the love of Christ can be found (see 3 Nephi 18:32 ).
Elder Dale G.
Renlund has counseled, “We must not only be tolerant while others work on their individual illnesses; we must also be kind, patient, supportive, and understanding” (“ Latter-day Saints Keep on Trying ,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2015, 57).
Remaining active in the Church and striving to live faithfully are important things people can do as they work to overcome addiction.
Activity: Personal Study
Think of some habit you have—something you do frequently, without thinking, such as cracking your knuckles, adjusting your glasses, eating too much, or sleeping too late.
Now try to go one day without doing it once.
When you succeed, try to go a whole week without doing it.
Discuss your experience with your companion.
Then try to imagine how much harder it is for someone you are teaching to conquer an addiction to pornography or harmful substances such as tobacco, alcohol, or drugs.
Activity: Personal Study
Think of some habit you have—something you do frequently, without thinking, such as cracking your knuckles, adjusting your glasses, eating too much, or sleeping too late.
Now try to go one day without doing it once.
When you succeed, try to go a whole week without doing it.
Discuss your experience with your companion.
Then try to imagine how much harder it is for someone you are teaching to conquer an addiction to pornography or harmful substances such as tobacco, alcohol, or drugs.
