Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Assume you are placed in the following situations.
How might you use the principles and skills in this chapter to help these people progress?
Plan how you would apply them in each situation.
While walking through a park, you see a woman and a small boy sitting alone on a bench.
The woman is crying.
You arrive at the home of someone who has been preparing for baptism, and the person tells you that he or she no longer wants to meet with you.
You are meeting for the seventh time with an individual who has been taught by several missionaries over a two-year period.
There have been few if any signs of progress.
You are beginning to teach a member family a gospel message, and they say, “We have already asked everyone we know to meet with the missionaries, and they have all said no.”
Select one of the missionary lessons.
Identify one or two scripture passages from each main principle.
Practice teaching from those passages as outlined in the “Use the Scriptures” section of this chapter.
Over the course of several weeks, review the Savior’s teachings in the Gospels ( Matthew , Mark , Luke , John ) and 3 Nephi .
In your study journal, make a list of the questions He asked.
Compare these questions with the questions you typically ask.
Read the account of Ammon and King Lamoni in Alma 18 and the account of Aaron in Alma 22:4–18 .
As you read, identify and describe how Ammon and Aaron:
Followed the Spirit and taught with love.
Began to teach.
Adapted their teachings to meet needs.
Bore testimony.
Used the scriptures.
Asked questions, listened, and resolved concerns.
Encouraged those they taught to make commitments.
Ponder the following statements by President Harold B.
Lee regarding teaching for understanding.
Evaluate how clearly you teach the doctrine of the gospel.
Record what you learn in your study journal.
“May you stay with the context of the scripture and reduce it to understandable terms” ( The Teachings of Harold B.
Lee, sel.
Clyde J.
Williams [1996], 444).
“Now you as teachers are not being sent out to teach new doctrine.
You’re to teach the old [doctrine], not so plain that they can just understand, but you must teach the [doctrine] of the Church so plainly that no one can misunderstand” ( The Teachings of Harold B.
Lee, 458).
Companion Study
Review your lesson plan from a recent lesson you have taught.
Write one question for each of the major principles outlined in your plan.
Then review your questions to see whether they are in harmony with what is taught in this chapter.
Next, answer each question as though you were someone being taught.
Revise your questions as needed.
Share your questions with your companion.
Together, evaluate your questions.
Consider the needs of someone you are teaching.
Discuss how he or she might answer your questions.
Also discuss how these questions may invite the Spirit and help them learn the gospel.
Think of the new people you are teaching.
Discuss what you can do to help them progress.
Write your ideas in your study journal and make plans in your daily planner.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite members or those currently being taught to your meeting.
Explain to the group that you want missionaries to improve their ability to share their important message.
Select a lesson and a skill.
Have the missionaries teach the person or people the lesson you have selected for 20 minutes, focusing on the skill you have identified.
Have them switch who they teach after 20 minutes.
After the missionaries have had an opportunity to teach, bring the group together and have the person or people tell the missionaries what was most effective and one way they can improve.
Show video examples of missionaries teaching or contacting people.
Select a skill and discuss as a group how well the missionaries in the video applied the principles for that skill.
Select a skill or an important aspect of a skill, and identify doctrine or scripture passages that support the skill.
Teach the doctrinal foundation of the skill to the missionaries.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Occasionally accompany missionaries as they teach.
Plan with them how you can participate in the teaching.
Encourage priesthood and auxiliary leaders to accompany missionaries in their teaching visits and provide feedback.
Demonstrate the effective use of scriptures, questions, and listening when teaching missionaries in zone conferences, mission leadership council, interviews, and while teaching with them.
