Learn with Your Companions
Help your companions experience success and gain confidence in learning the language as rapidly as possible.
Sincerely and frequently compliment your companions and other missionaries on their progress.
Be sensitive not to say or do anything that might weaken their confidence, but don’t protect them so much that they do not learn.
Do not withhold help when it is needed.
Give them many opportunities to teach and testify successfully.
Consider the following ideas for learning with your companions:
Teach each other the grammar and vocabulary you have learned.
Practice teaching in the mission language.
At first, new missionaries might teach very simply, share a simple testimony, and recite memorized scriptures.
As their confidence and ability increase, they will be able to participate more fully in teaching others.
Practice using the language to communicate in common missionary situations.
Give each other simple and practical feedback with kindness.
It is also important that you receive feedback without taking offense.
Note how a more experienced missionary helped his companion in the following true account.
I had just arrived in my second area when my companion told me it was my turn to give the spiritual thought at a dinner appointment.
I was more than just a little scared.
My first companion had always been happy to do the teaching, and I was used to giving my small portion of the lesson and then listening as he would then expound and answer any questions.
I tried to convince my companion that he should give the spiritual thought, but he encouraged me to take the assignment.
I practiced with his help.
When the moment arrived, I opened my scriptures and read from 3 Nephi 5 and 7 .
I struggled but managed to explain why I felt my chosen passages were significant, and I was relieved when I was done.
When a question was asked, I looked to my companion to answer, but he didn’t open his mouth.
That was when I amazed myself by coming up with an answer in understandable French.
I was even more amazed that the member didn’t seem to sense that I was insecure about my communication skills.
I gained confidence and realized that my French was better than I gave myself credit for.
The weeks passed, and my companion continued to let me teach—even when I didn’t think I could do it, even when he probably wondered if I could do it.
And because he encouraged me to speak, listen, and teach, my language skills began to progress more quickly, and I felt that I had become a tool of our Father in Heaven instead of being simply another elder’s quiet companion.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
If you are working with a new missionary, how can you better help your companion learn the language?
If you are a new missionary, what kind of help might you ask from your senior companion?
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
If you are working with a new missionary, how can you better help your companion learn the language?
If you are a new missionary, what kind of help might you ask from your senior companion?
