The Gift of Tongues
Gifts of the Spirit are real.
The gift of tongues and the gift of the interpretation of tongues can help you as much or more than any other single thing to speak and understand the language of the people in your mission.
The gift of tongues and the interpretation of tongues has many manifestations, including speaking and understanding an unknown language as an endowment of the Spirit.
It also includes speaking and understanding a known language with or without the aid of study.
Today, the gift of tongues and the interpretation of tongues is most often manifested in Spirit-enhanced learning and studying to speak and understand a mission language.
Additionally, the Holy Ghost can manifest the truth of your testimony even though a language barrier may exist between you and those you teach.
Likewise, the Holy Ghost can bring words and phrases to your remembrance and help you understand what people are saying from their hearts as you teach people in a mission language.
For the most part, you will not obtain these gifts without effort; you need to actively seek them.
Part of seeking the gift of tongues is to labor and struggle and to do all you can to learn the language.
Be patient as you prayerfully study and practice the language.
Trust that the Spirit will help you as you live the way you should and do your very best.
Have faith that you can have the gift of tongues in its true and most comprehensive sense.
When you feel you are struggling to express yourself as clearly as you would like, remember that the Spirit is able to speak to the hearts of all of God’s children.
President Thomas S.
Monson taught: “There is one language … that is common to each missionary—the language of the Spirit.
It is not learned from textbooks written by men of letters, nor is it acquired through reading and memorization.
The language of the Spirit comes to him who seeks with all his heart to know God and keep His divine commandments.
Proficiency in this language permits one to breach barriers, overcome obstacles, and touch the human heart” (“ The Spirit Giveth Life ,” Ensign, June 1997, 2).
Remember This
Study the doctrine and lessons you teach in your native language first.
Learn to express this doctrine and your feelings about it in your mission language.
Create a language study plan and regularly try new ideas as you seek to improve in your mission language.
Seek the guidance of the Spirit to help you understand and communicate with the people of your mission.
Remember This
Study the doctrine and lessons you teach in your native language first.
Learn to express this doctrine and your feelings about it in your mission language.
Create a language study plan and regularly try new ideas as you seek to improve in your mission language.
Seek the guidance of the Spirit to help you understand and communicate with the people of your mission.
