Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Review the suggestions in this chapter.
Identify a suggestion you have not yet tried, and set a goal to try it for the next few days.
At your next district council, ask an experienced missionary with good language ability what he or she has done to learn the language.
Read and discuss the following statement by Elder Richard G.
Scott: “Where … national traditions or customs conflict with the teachings of God, set them aside.
Where traditions and customs are in harmony with His teachings, they should be cherished” (“ Removing Barriers to Happiness ,” Ensign, May 1998, 87).
Think about the ways that the culture in the area where you serve is different from your own.
Make a list of the differences.
Then cross out any that conflict with the teachings of the gospel.
Consider each of those that remain, and think about how you can make these customs your own.
Build a study plan to prepare you to do one of the following things in your mission language:
Tell the Joseph Smith story.
Summarize 3 Nephi 11 .
Summarize Alma 32 .
Tell the story of Nephi and the brass plates (see 1 Nephi 3–5 ).
Explain dispensations.
Share a personal experience.
Make note cards for words you don’t know in one of the lessons.
Carry them with you until you have learned them all.
Companion Study
Practice teaching each other the missionary lessons in your mission language.
Ask your companion to listen to your pronunciation and help you improve.
Select scripture stories or passages you would like to use in teaching.
Practice summarizing them in your own words.
Review the ideas in this chapter.
Discuss which suggestions you could use in companion study during the next week.
If you are training a new missionary, take note of situations when your companion is not understood.
Make a list of relevant words, phrases, or grammar that would help your companion.
Explain and practice how to use what is on the list in upcoming, planned activities.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite native speakers to the meeting.
Arrange for the missionaries to teach them in small groups.
Ask the native speakers to take notes and give feedback on the missionaries’ language.
Assign one or two missionaries ahead of time to tell about successes they have had in studying the language.
Have them share their ideas.
Assign an experienced missionary to briefly present some part of the language that is usually difficult for missionaries.
Present examples of good usage, and have the missionaries practice them.
Have missionaries who are native to the culture share helpful insights.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Periodically interview or converse with missionaries in the language they are learning.
Ask local priesthood leaders for ideas on how missionaries can improve their language.
Identify the most common mistakes made by missionaries learning your mission language.
Give instruction in zone conference or mission leadership council on correcting these mistakes.
Teach missionaries the doctrine of spiritual gifts.
Observe your missionaries when they teach in the language.
Look for opportunities to use the language with your missionaries.
