Helping People with Addictions
You can help people who are struggling to overcome addiction by lovingly discussing their struggles, supporting them, and connecting them with resources.
You might encourage them to attend one of the Church’s addiction recovery support groups.
These groups may meet in person or online.
(See AddictionRecovery.ChurchofJesusChrist.org .) Encourage them to use the resources in the “ Addiction ” section of Life Help in the Gospel Library.
Local Church leaders and members can also provide support.
Some people with addictions may need professional medical and mental health treatment.
Here are a few suggestions for how you can support people struggling to overcome addiction:
Reinforce their efforts to come unto Christ.
Help them see that their efforts to recover and heal are recognized and valued by Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ.
Teach them that they can be strengthened through the Savior and His Atonement.
He fully recognizes the intent of their heart to do good.
Pray for them in your personal prayers, and pray with them.
As appropriate, encourage them to seek a priesthood blessing from local priesthood leaders.
Continue teaching them the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Teach them that Heavenly Father, the Savior, and the Holy Ghost love them and want their success.
Encourage them to attend church regularly and develop friendships with members.
Be positive and supportive, especially if they relapse.
Addiction is difficult to overcome, and relapses can happen.
Church leaders and members should not be shocked by this.
They should show love, not judgment.
A new member who stops attending church may have returned to an old addiction and may be feeling unworthy and discouraged.
An immediate visit giving encouragement and support can help.
Members should show in word and action that the Church is a place where the love of Christ can be found (see 3 Nephi 18:32 ).
Personal or Companion Study
Think of someone you are teaching or a new or returning member who is trying to overcome an addiction.
Review “ Faith in Jesus Christ ” and “ Repentance ” from “The Gospel of Jesus Christ” lesson in chapter 3.
What could you teach this person from that lesson and from this chapter that could help him or her?
Create a lesson plan to help this person.
Personal or Companion Study
Think of someone you are teaching or a new or returning member who is trying to overcome an addiction.
Review “ Faith in Jesus Christ ” and “ Repentance ” from “The Gospel of Jesus Christ” lesson in chapter 3.
What could you teach this person from that lesson and from this chapter that could help him or her?
Create a lesson plan to help this person.
