The Weekly Planning Session
Once you have set goals, decide how you will achieve them.
You and your companion should hold a weekly planning session on a day and at a time that is less productive for sharing the gospel.
Your mission president will set the day and time of the weekly planning session.
This weekly planning should not take more than two to three hours to complete.
Your discussion should focus on the needs of people and how to help them progress.
During this weekly planning session, review past goals and set new goals for the coming week and month.
Consider every aspect of your missionary work.
Sunday evening is the recommended time for completing the Weekly and Monthly Key Indicator Report.
If you do not report key indicators automatically or through the Missionary Portal, then a Sunday-evening report provides the most accurate and timely status of the mission because most baptisms and confirmations take place on Saturday or Sunday.
Because the day you hold your weekly planning session is likely to be different from your reporting day, approach your weekly planning with 10 days in mind.
For example, if your weekly planning session is on Thursday, you will review the progress on your goals so far that week, and you will plan what you need to do to achieve these goals through Sunday.
Then, set goals and make plans for the next week from Monday to Sunday.
On Sunday evening you will total and report the results from the past week, and you will have your plan ready for the coming week.
Below is a description of how the planning guidelines apply to a weekly planning session.
As you use these guidelines, notice that you will follow a pattern of first setting goals and then making plans to achieve them.
The plans you make should identify the specific steps you need to take to reach your goals.
Pray for and seek inspiration.
Before you begin, have your planning tools near, such as the Missionary Daily Planner and area book or digital tools.
Begin your planning session with prayer.
Seek inspiration as you discuss the needs of people and plan how to serve them and help them progress in the gospel.
Pray specifically for those you are teaching.
Have the faith to ask Heavenly Father to bless them with answers to their prayers, with a desire to attend church, and so forth.
Set goals and make plans for people to be baptized and confirmed in the coming week.
Review the Teaching Record for each person who is committed to be baptized or confirmed in the coming week.
Discuss the arrangements you need to make for baptismal interviews, services, and confirmations.
Using the Teaching Record, discuss any commitments these people may be struggling with and how you can help them.
Plan to make daily contact with them.
Discuss how you can help the ward mission leader coordinate with the bishop for their confirmations in sacrament meeting.
Set goals and make plans for people with a baptismal date.
Review the Teaching Record for each person who will be baptized in the coming weeks.
Talk about lessons you need to teach them.
Consider how you can help them prepare for baptism and confirmation.
Discuss why someone might not have been baptized on their scheduled day.
Carefully consider and discuss their needs.
Set new goals and make plans that will help them progress toward a specific day and time when they can enter into the covenant of baptism and receive the ordinance of confirmation.
On your Teaching Record, record the principles you plan to teach and the commitments you will help them keep.
Determine what you can do to help them receive these lessons and keep these commitments.
Set goals and make plans to help people attend sacrament meeting.
Review the Teaching Record for each person, and discuss his or her attendance at sacrament meeting.
For people who are attending sacrament meeting regularly, discuss what you need to do to help them continue to have a spiritually uplifting experience.
For those who have never attended sacrament meeting, who have attended only once, or who attend occasionally, discuss what might be keeping them from coming.
For example, they might need help with transportation, they may be afraid or unfamiliar with Church services, or they may have had a negative experience in the past.
Discuss what you can do to help them overcome these barriers.
Set goals for the number of people you plan to have in the next sacrament meeting.
Plan who will take these people to church, who will greet them, and who will sit with them during meetings.
Plan to contact quorum and auxiliary leaders and any teachers responsible for the classes the visitors will attend.
Plan to inform the bishop.
On the Progress Record, list ways the ward council can help.
Make plans for what you need to do on each day of the week to prepare these people to attend.
Set goals and make plans for lessons to be taught to people who are progressing.
Review the Teaching Record for each person who was taught with a member present.
Talk about how you feel they are receiving the message.
Review the commitments and events from the Teaching Record that they are striving to keep or complete.
Discuss how to help ward members and the ward council remain involved in their progress.
Set goals for the lessons you will teach; the commitments you will help them keep, especially attending church, studying the Book of Mormon, and praying; and important experiences you will help them have over the next several weeks.
Review the Teaching Record for each person who was taught without a member present.
This may be someone you found through your own efforts.
Discuss which priesthood or auxiliary leader could be invited to friendship them.
Review the lessons you will teach and the commitments you will help them keep.
Set goals for the lessons you will teach, how you will involve members, and how you will help these people attend sacrament meeting.
Record these goals on the Teaching Record, and make the necessary plans.
Set goals and make plans for lessons to be taught to everyone else you are teaching.
Review the Teaching Record for each person who is not progressing.
Discuss why they are not keeping commitments.
Discuss how you will involve priesthood and auxiliary leaders in friendshipping these people.
Discuss many of the same items suggested in step 5.
Set goals and make plans to help them progress.
Write these goals on the Teaching Record.
Set goals and make plans to contact and teach referrals received from members, missionaries, Church headquarters, and others.
Review the People with Interest forms.
Review all the referrals you have received.
Review the referrals you have not yet contacted.
Set goals and make plans to contact as many referrals as possible during the week—preferably all the referrals.
Referrals should be contacted within 24 hours, if at all possible.
Contact the person who submitted the referral to learn more and to plan how you might work together with them.
Discuss how you might approach each person or family and what message you might teach.
If the referral is from Church headquarters, discuss how you will teach a gospel message using the video, book, or other material they have requested.
Make sure you have the item they requested.
If appropriate, contact the referral by phone or text message and schedule an appointment.
Discuss what follow-up you should do.
Set goals and make plans to seek more referrals from members and people you are teaching.
Prayerfully identify people you can visit.
Plan how you will help them invite their friends and family members to learn about the restored gospel.
Discuss how you will invite them to participate in missionary work.
Schedule appointments and make necessary plans.
Set goals and make plans for lessons you will teach to recent converts and returning members.
Review the Teaching Record for each recent convert and returning member you are teaching.
Set goals and make plans for lessons you will teach.
Determine how you will help these people attend sacrament meeting and keep other commitments.
Set goals and make plans to find new people to teach.
Review the previous week’s efforts to find new people to teach through referrals, service opportunities, and personal finding activities.
Discuss why some people showed interest in learning more and others did not.
Set goals for how many new people you will find this week.
Identify people who are likely to want to learn more.
Also identify members and part-member families you want to visit, referrals to visit, and service opportunities you will seek.
Plan which finding tools you will use, such as pass-along cards, DVDs, or scriptures.
Also discuss where you will go to contact people, how many people you will contact each day, people you will ask for referrals, people you will visit who have been taught previously, ways the ward council can help, and so on.
Fill in all remaining time with finding activities that will help you achieve your goals.
Set goals and plan to talk to as many people as the Lord puts in your path.
Always strive to find people to teach.
Plan how to work with the ward council.
The bishop is the presiding authority.
Respect and honor his authority.
Under his direction, review the Progress Record used in the previous missionary coordination meeting or ward council.
Discuss assignments you have received from the bishop or ward mission leader, and report on whether you have completed them.
Discuss how to involve others who can help, such as the ward mission leader, priesthood and auxiliary leaders, and other members.
Carefully prepare a Progress Record for the upcoming ward council meeting or missionary coordination meeting.
Make sure it is accurate, neatly written, and clean.
Set goals and make plans to work in harmony with the ward leaders.
When possible, make copies of the Progress Record for the ward leaders who will attend.
If your mission uses digital tools, an electronic copy of the Progress Record is automatically made available to ward leaders.
Schedule meetings that occur regularly.
In your Missionary Daily Planner or digital tools, schedule meetings that happen regularly, such as district council, zone conferences, mission leadership council, interviews, and Church meetings.
Discuss assignments you need to complete prior to any of these meetings, and add them to your Notes/To Do List.
Conduct companionship inventory.
At the end of your weekly planning session, share with your companion appropriate goals, and ask for his or her help to accomplish them.
Discuss the strength of your relationship with your companion.
Discuss any challenges that may be keeping your companionship from working in unity or from being obedient.
Resolve conflicts.
Share with your companion what you think his or her strengths are.
Ask for suggestions on how you can improve.
If needed, set goals that will improve your relationship.
Conclude with prayer.
