Learn with Your Companions
Help your companions experience success and gain confidence in learning the mission language or in learning English.
Sincerely and frequently compliment your companions and other missionaries on their progress.
Provide simple and practical feedback with kindness.
Give them many opportunities to teach and testify successfully.
Note how a more experienced missionary helped his companion in the following true account.
I had just arrived in my second area when my companion told me it was my turn to give the spiritual thought at a dinner appointment.
My first companion had always been happy to do the teaching, and I was used to giving my small portion of the lesson and then listening.
I tried to convince my companion that he should give the spiritual thought, but he encouraged me to take the assignment.
I practiced with his help.
When the moment arrived, I opened my scriptures and read from 3 Nephi 5 and 7 .
I struggled but managed to explain why I felt my chosen passages were significant, and I was relieved when I was done.
When a question was asked, I looked to my companion to answer, but he didn’t open his mouth.
That was when I amazed myself by coming up with an answer in understandable French.
I was even more amazed that the member didn’t seem to sense that I was insecure about my communication skills.
I gained confidence and realized that my French was better than I gave myself credit for.
The weeks passed, and my companion continued to let me teach—even when I didn’t think I could do it and even though he probably wondered if I could do it.
I felt that I had become a tool of our Father in Heaven instead of simply being a quiet companion.
Personal or Companion Study
Work with other missionaries to help you learn your mission language.
If you are working with a new missionary, how can you better help your companion learn the language or learn English?
If you are a new missionary, what kind of help might you ask from your companion?
Personal or Companion Study
Work with other missionaries to help you learn your mission language.
If you are working with a new missionary, how can you better help your companion learn the language or learn English?
If you are a new missionary, what kind of help might you ask from your companion?
