The Book of Mormon Answers Questions of the Soul
President Ezra Taft Benson said that missionaries “need to show how [the Book of Mormon] answers the great questions of the soul” (“ Flooding the Earth with the Book of Mormon ,” Ensign, Nov.
1988, 5).
“The great questions of the soul” may include such questions as these: Is there really a God?
Did I exist before I was born?
Will I live after I die?
What is the purpose of life?
Is Jesus really the Savior?
Other questions may focus on more temporal needs: How can I improve my relationship with my spouse?
How can I help my teenagers avoid drugs or immorality?
How can I find work to support my family?
The gospel of Jesus Christ helps us answer both kinds of questions.
As we gain faith that the Book of Mormon is true, we can begin to answer questions about the purpose of life and the hope of eternal life.
The Book of Mormon describes the plan of happiness, which gives meaning and perspective to life.
Answers to questions such as the following are clearly taught in the Book of Mormon.
Is there a God?
( Alma 22 )
What does Jesus Christ expect of me?
( 2 Nephi 9 )
How can a belief in Jesus Christ help me?
( Alma 36 )
Is there life after death?
( Alma 40 )
What is the purpose of life?
( Alma 34 )
Why does God allow evil and suffering to occur?
( 2 Nephi 2 ; Alma 14:9–11 ; 60:13 )
Does my infant need to be baptized?
( Moroni 8 )
Does God know me?
( Alma 5:38, 58 )
Does God answer prayers?
( Enos 1 )
How can I find peace and joy?
( Mosiah 2, 4 )
How can my family be happier and more united?
( Mosiah 2 )
How can I balance my family and career?
( 3 Nephi 13 )
How can I strengthen my relationship with my spouse?
( 3 Nephi 14 )
How can I avoid the evils that threaten my family?
( Alma 39 )
How can I avoid sin?
( Helaman 5 )
As we read the Book of Mormon with the guidance of the Spirit, it helps us answer personal questions.
It teaches that prayer and revelation are the key to solving particular problems.
It helps us have faith that God will answer our prayers.
The Book of Mormon also helps us understand that God’s commandments are not a restrictive list of dos and don’ts but guideposts to a happy, abundant life.
As we begin to understand that the first principles and ordinances of the gospel are the way to the abundant life, we will appreciate that these principles help answer any question and fill any need.
For example, we understand that repentance, forgiveness, and the covenant to serve others are essential in improving relationships with our spouses.
We see that faith in Christ, accepting and keeping covenants, and following the promptings of the Spirit can help teenagers avoid the powerful temptations that surround them.
The gospel can resolve almost any question or need.
This is why you are to “teach the principles of my gospel, which are in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, in the which is the fulness of the gospel” ( Doctrine and Covenants 42:12 ).
“In a world ever more dangerous … the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ has the nourishing power to heal starving spirits of the world.”
—President Boyd K.
Packer
“ The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ ,” Ensign, Nov.
2001, 64
“In a world ever more dangerous … the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ has the nourishing power to heal starving spirits of the world.”
—President Boyd K.
Packer
“ The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ ,” Ensign, Nov.
2001, 64
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Make a list of some “great questions of the soul” that people have asked.
Find verses in the Book of Mormon to answer these questions.
Write the answers in your study journal, and use them as you teach.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Make a list of some “great questions of the soul” that people have asked.
Find verses in the Book of Mormon to answer these questions.
Write the answers in your study journal, and use them as you teach.
