Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Read 2 Nephi 2 , 9 , 30 , 31 , 32 , and highlight every reference to Jesus Christ.
Make a list of the different names and titles for Christ used in these chapters.
Underline the spoken words of Christ.
Highlight His attributes and His actions.
You might want to continue this practice as you read the entire Book of Mormon.
Write in your study journal how you felt when you first gained a spiritual witness that the Book of Mormon is true.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:17 uses the phrase “by these things we know” to introduce doctrine taught and clarified by the Book of Mormon.
Read Doctrine and Covenants 20:15–35 and make a list of the teachings mentioned.
Select one teaching and use the Topical Guide to compare what the Bible teaches about it.
Compare the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5–7 and Christ’s sermon at the temple in 3 Nephi 12–14 .
Make a list of the plain and precious truths restored through the Book of Mormon.
Make a list of questions that people have asked.
Find Book of Mormon passages that answer those questions, and use them as needed in your daily teaching.
Find a Book of Mormon scripture that has changed your life.
Record your feelings about this scripture in your study journal.
Locate each instance in the Book of Mormon where the words of someone’s prayer are recorded.
In your study journal, write the common elements of these prayers.
Read 2 Nephi 33:10–15 and Moroni 10:27–29, 34 .
What will you tell Nephi and Moroni at the judgment bar about your use of the Book of Mormon?
Write your response and set goals to improve.
From the chapter headings of Mosiah 11–16 , write a summary of what Abinadi taught.
Read these chapters and expand your summary.
From the chapter headings of Mosiah 2–5 , write a summary of what King Benjamin taught.
Read these chapters and expand your summary.
As you read daily from the Book of Mormon, record in your study journal the passages that impress you.
Write how you will apply them in your life.
Companion Study
Read Book of Mormon passages together.
Share what you have learned and felt.
Also bear your testimonies to each other.
Which Book of Mormon prophet or missionary would you like to be like and why?
Share your response with your companion.
Read Alma 26 and 29 as companions.
Share how you feel about your mission.
Write your feelings in your study journal.
Read Alma 37:9 and discuss how critical the scriptures were to Ammon and his fellow missionaries.
Find references describing how they used the scriptures.
Read Alma 11–14 with your companion, one taking the role of Alma or Amulek and the other the detractors.
Note how these missionaries responded to difficult questions.
Read the following true account and discuss what you learn concerning the importance and power of the Book of Mormon (names have been changed).
“When we invited the Sniders to be baptized and confirmed, Sister Snider was ready, but Brother Snider said, ‘Don’t get your hopes up, Elders.
I don’t know if I can ever do this!’ Although Brother Snider accepted what we taught and was always warm and friendly, he was deeply concerned about how his family would react to his joining another church.
“After several weeks of watching Brother Snider struggle, my companion and I felt impressed to again read 3 Nephi 11 with the Sniders.
I will never forget what happened that night.
As we opened the Book of Mormon, my companion explained, ‘This chapter, as you might recall, recounts the Savior’s visit to the people in the Book of Mormon.
Here we read about the Savior’s love for these people and what He taught them.’ We each took turns reading a verse or two.
After reading through verse 5, my companion interrupted and said, ‘I have always been impressed with the description given here of the voice they heard.
The voice was not harsh, it was not loud, and although it was a small voice, it had a powerful piercing effect on them.
This voice was not only heard with their ears, but it spoke to their hearts.’ I watched the Sniders as they listened intently to my companion.
“After some discussion about prayer and listening to the Spirit, it was Brother Snider’s turn to read: ‘And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them: Behold my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him.’ Brother Snider paused, looking intently at his Book of Mormon.
Then he looked up at me and said, ‘Heavenly Father was really proud of His Son, wasn’t He?’ ‘Yes,’ I said.
Brother Snider looked back at his book again and stared at the open pages as if deep in thought.
Finally he said, ‘I would want Heavenly Father to be proud of me too.
I wonder how He would introduce me.
I guess, if I … well, if I want Him to be proud of me then I had better do what He wants me to do.’ ‘Yes, I think that would be important,’ I replied.
‘Well,’ Brother Snider continued.
‘I think I’ve been worrying too much about what everybody else thinks and not enough about what God thinks.’ After a brief pause Brother Snider nodded and with a determined look said, ‘I think I had better be baptized.’ His response was so unexpected that my companion and I looked at him with blank stares.
Finally, my companion said, ‘Yes, that would be the right thing to do.
In fact, later on in this chapter the Savior teaches …’ As my companion talked I felt a burning in my heart and gratitude for the power of the Book of Mormon.”
How did these missionaries use the Book of Mormon?
How will you and your companion use it more effectively in your missionary efforts?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Practice using the Book of Mormon in each of the ways mentioned in the main headings of this chapter.
List objections or questions raised by those you are teaching.
Explain to each other how you would answer these questions using the Book of Mormon.
Read Book of Mormon passages together.
Share knowledge, feelings, and testimony.
Practice using the Book of Mormon to confirm the message of the Restoration.
Select one of the great Book of Mormon missionaries.
Discuss and have missionaries list the characteristics of this missionary.
Invite each missionary to set a goal to apply one of these characteristics.
Repeat this activity regularly using Book of Mormon missionaries.
Invite missionaries to share experiences in which the Book of Mormon has helped those they have taught in the conversion process.
Have missionaries share their best Book of Mormon answer to a question of the soul.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Teach the missionaries how to use the Book of Mormon to confirm the truthfulness of the message of the Restoration.
Read 1 Nephi 1 with the missionaries and compare it with Joseph Smith’s experience .
Provide missionaries with a clean paperback copy of the Book of Mormon.
Have them highlight in different colors:
Each reference to Jesus Christ (any of His names or pronouns referring to Him).
His words (spoken by Him or by prophets when they say, “Thus saith the Lord”).
His attributes.
The doctrine and principles contained in the Book of Mormon.
At the bottom of each page ask the missionaries to count the total number of items referenced.
In interviews and during district council during the two- or three-month period for this activity, have missionaries share with each other what they’ve learned.
You might consider doing a similar activity with the entire mission highlighting references to faith in Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, or any of the fundamental principles of the gospel.
During interviews or in conversations, invite missionaries to share with you Book of Mormon scriptures that have changed their lives.
Help missionaries see how the Book of Mormon teaches the doctrine from the missionary lessons.
For example, if the topic were the Atonement of Jesus Christ, have missionaries write in one column each major element of Christ’s Atonement taught in the Book of Mormon, including the scripture references.
Then, in a second column, have them list side-by-side those same elements as taught in the Bible.
Have your missionaries leave blank those elements that are missing or not taught in the Bible.
It will become very evident to the missionaries how the Book of Mormon is the keystone of our doctrine.
This same activity can be done with other doctrine that missionaries teach.
Identify pertinent questions of the soul for people in your mission.
Invite missionaries to find answers in the Book of Mormon.
