Introduction
At the beginning of His mortal ministry, Jesus walked along the shore of the Sea of Galilee and called out to two fishermen, Peter and Andrew.
“Follow me,” He said, “and I will make you fishers of men” ( Matthew 4:19 ; see also Mark 1:17 ).
The Lord has also called you to His work, and He also invites you to follow Him.
“What manner of men ought ye to be?” He asked.
“Verily I say unto you, even as I am” ( 3 Nephi 27:27 ).
Some chapters in Preach My Gospel focus on what you need to do as a missionary, such as how to study, how to teach, and how to set goals.
Just as vital as what you do is who you are and who you are becoming .
That is the focus of this chapter.
The scriptures describe Christlike attributes that are essential for you to seek as a missionary and throughout your life.
A Christlike attribute is a quality or trait of the Savior’s nature and character.
This chapter describes some of those attributes.
Study these and the scriptures associated with them.
Look for other Christlike attributes as you study other scripture passages.
Personal Study
Study Doctrine and Covenants 4 .
What attributes does the Lord identify as being important for missionaries?
How does seeking these attributes help you fulfill your missionary purpose?
Personal Study
Study Doctrine and Covenants 4 .
What attributes does the Lord identify as being important for missionaries?
How does seeking these attributes help you fulfill your missionary purpose?
“Seek This Jesus”
The prophet Moroni exhorted, “I would commend you to seek this Jesus of whom the prophets and apostles have written” ( Ether 12:41 ).
One important way to seek Jesus is to make a diligent effort to learn about Him and become more like Him.
Your mission is an ideal time to focus on this.
As you strive to become more like Christ, you will better accomplish your purpose as a missionary.
You will experience joy, peace, and spiritual growth as His attributes become part of your character.
You will also establish a foundation for continuing to follow Him throughout your life.
Gifts from God
Christlike attributes are gifts from God.
Like all good things, these gifts come through “the grace of God the Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost” ( Ether 12:41 ).
Focus on Christ as you seek to cultivate His attributes (see Doctrine and Covenants 6:36 ).
These attributes are not items on a checklist.
They are not techniques you develop in a self-improvement program.
They are not earned only through personal determination.
Rather, you can receive them as you strive to become a more devoted disciple of Jesus Christ.
Pray for God to bless you with these attributes.
Humbly acknowledge your weakness and your need for His power in your life.
As you do, He will “make weak things become strong unto [you]” ( Ether 12:27 ).
A Gradual Process
Becoming more like the Savior is a gradual, lifelong process.
With a desire to please God, improve one decision at a time.
Be patient with yourself.
God knows that change and growth take time.
He is pleased with your sincere desires and will bless you for every effort you make.
As you seek to become more like Christ, your desires, thoughts, and actions will change.
Through the Atonement of Jesus Christ and the power of the Holy Ghost, your very nature will be refined (see Mosiah 3:19 ).
The Holy Ghost expands and enlarges our abilities.
He “inspires virtue, kindness, goodness, tenderness, gentleness, and charity.
… In short, it is, as it were, marrow to the bone, joy to the heart, light to the eyes, music to the ears, and life to the whole being” (Parley P.
Pratt, Key to the Science of Theology [1855], 98–99).
Scripture Study
What do these scriptures teach about following Jesus Christ’s example?
3 Nephi 27:21, 27
John 13:1–16
1 Peter 2:21
What can you learn from the following scriptures about seeking Christlike attributes?
2 Nephi 28:30
Moroni 8:25–26
Doctrine and Covenants 93:12–13
Scripture Study
What do these scriptures teach about following Jesus Christ’s example?
3 Nephi 27:21, 27
John 13:1–16
1 Peter 2:21
What can you learn from the following scriptures about seeking Christlike attributes?
2 Nephi 28:30
Moroni 8:25–26
Doctrine and Covenants 93:12–13
