Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Periodically complete the “ Attribute Activity ” at the end of this chapter.
Identify an attribute in this chapter.
Ask yourself:
How can I learn more about this attribute?
How will seeking this attribute help me become a better minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ?
Find examples of Christlike attributes in the lives of men and women in the scriptures.
Record your impressions in your study journal.
Find examples of Christlike attributes in the sacred music of the Church.
As you seek an attribute, memorize the words of hymns or songs to find strength and power.
Repeat or sing the words to yourself for inspiration and to invite the influence of the Spirit.
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Study references to Christlike attributes in Gospel Library or other approved resources.
Discuss how to apply what you learn.
You may also discuss what you have learned in your personal efforts to become like Christ.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Several days before the council or conference, ask each missionary to prepare a five-minute talk on a Christlike attribute.
Allow time in the meeting for a few missionaries to share their talks.
Divide the missionaries into four groups and give them the following assignment:
Group 1: Read 1 Nephi 17:7–16 and answer the following questions:
How did Nephi exercise his faith?
What did Nephi do that was Christlike?
What promises did the Lord make to Nephi?
How does this account apply to missionary work?
Group 2: Read Mark 5:24–34 and answer the following questions:
How did this woman exercise faith in Jesus Christ?
Why was she healed?
How can we follow her example in our missionary efforts?
Group 3: Read Jacob 7:1–15 and answer the following questions:
Why was Jacob’s faith strong enough to resist Sherem’s attack?
How did Jacob exercise faith when he talked with Sherem?
How were Jacob’s actions Christlike?
Group 4: Read Joseph Smith—History 1:8–18 and answer the following questions:
In what ways did Joseph Smith exercise faith in Jesus Christ?
How was his faith tried?
What did he do that was Christlike?
How can we follow Joseph Smith’s example?
After the groups finish, bring the missionaries together and ask them to share what they discussed.
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
Ask missionaries to read one of the four Gospels in the New Testament or 3 Nephi 11–28 .
Have them underline what the Savior did that they can also do.
Use goal setting and planning to teach missionaries about diligence.
Show how diligence in focusing on people is an expression of love.
During interviews or in conversations, ask missionaries to talk about a Christlike attribute they are seeking.
