Preach My Gospel
(Doctrine and Covenants 50:14)
Name:
Mission and Dates of Service:
List of Areas:
Companions:
Names and Addresses of People Baptized and Confirmed:
Published by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Cover:
John the Baptist Baptizing Jesus
© 1988 by Greg K.
Olsen
Courtesy Mill Pond Press and Dr.
Gerry Hooper.
Do not copy.
© 2004, 2018, 2019 by
Intellectual Reserve, Inc.
All rights reserved
Version: 3/19
Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Missionary Service
English
16229 000
Printed in the United States of America
First Presidency Message
Dear Fellow Missionary:
We congratulate you on the great opportunity you have to be a missionary for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
There is no more compelling work than this, nor any which brings greater satisfaction.
Preach My Gospel
is intended to help you be a better-prepared, more spiritually mature missionary and a more persuasive teacher.
We urge you to use it daily in your personal and companion preparation, and in your district council and zone conferences.
Study the referenced scriptures and learn the doctrine and principles.
We invite you to rise to a new sense of commitment to assist our Father in Heaven in His glorious work.
Every missionary has an important role in helping “to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man” (
Moses 1:39
).
The Lord will reward and richly bless you as you humbly and prayerfully serve Him.
More happiness awaits you than you have ever experienced as you labor among His children.
The First Presidency
Introduction: How Can I Best Use
Preach My Gospel
?
Preach My Gospel
Image
cover of Preach My Gospel
Use
Preach My Gospel
to meet your needs as a missionary as you become a more deeply committed disciple of Jesus Christ.
You can spend an entire study session on just a few paragraphs—or an entire chapter.
You can study chapters in order or plan another sequence that better meets your needs.
This flexibility allows you to study what you need when you need it and as directed by your mission president.
All of the chapters in
Preach My Gospel
will help prepare you to fulfill your purpose as a missionary.
However, as you begin to study
chapter 3
, you may sense a difference in approach.
Most of the chapters are addressed to you.
Chapter 3 is addressed to a more general audience.
You learn the doctrine in chapter 3 (a) to strengthen your own gospel knowledge and testimony and (b) to teach others and prepare them to make and keep commitments and covenants.
The doctrine in some of the other chapters may also help you teach people.
For example, chapter 4, “
How Do I Recognize and Understand the Spirit?
” may help you teach people about how to gain a testimony by the power of the Holy Ghost.
Chapter 5, “
What Is the Role of the Book of Mormon?
” may help you resolve someone’s concerns about reading the Book of Mormon.
Ideas from chapter 2, “
How Do I Study Effectively and Prepare to Teach?
” may help new converts gain more from their study of the Book of Mormon.
Preach My Gospel
focuses on the essentials of missionary work.
It does not answer every question or situation you will encounter.
You will be most effective as you follow the Spirit, search the scriptures, keep the commandments, and apply what you learn.
Study the chapters throughout your mission.
Apply what you learn.
Evaluate your work.
Missionaries who strive to prepare themselves daily and seek to improve regularly will receive direction from the Holy Ghost and see blessings in their lives.
The Missionary Lessons
You have the flexibility to teach the lessons in whatever way best helps people fully prepare for their baptism and confirmation.
Your purpose is not only to cover the material; it is to help others come unto Christ through the first principles of the gospel, including faith in Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
A lesson should rarely go over 45 minutes.
You may find that a person’s schedule or your own time commitments may only allow shorter teaching visits.
In that case, you may need frequent, short teaching visits covering smaller portions of material.
You can teach the lessons in many ways.
Which lesson you teach, when you teach it, and how much time you give to it are best determined by the needs of the person you are teaching and the direction of the Spirit.
Do not memorize the entire lesson.
Personal Study, Companion Study, District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Effective study during your mission, including pondering and listening to the promptings of the Spirit, will help you fulfill your purpose as a missionary and strengthen your testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Important study opportunities include personal study, companion study, district council, zone conferences, and mission leadership council (for mission leaders).
Your missionary schedule includes time for personal and companion study most days.
What you learn in personal study will help you in companion study, district council, zone conferences, and mission leadership council, where you can “teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom” (
Doctrine and Covenants 88:77
).
What you gain from your study opportunities will help you teach with spiritual power.
Image
study cycle
Personal Study
The purpose of personal study is to strengthen your knowledge and testimony of the restored gospel and help you prepare to meet the needs of those you teach.
In your personal study, focus on the standard works and appropriate and approved resources for your mission.
You can make personal study effective as you:
Read from the Book of Mormon and other scriptures.
Study the doctrine in the missionary lessons.
Study other chapters from
Preach My Gospel.
Ponder what you are learning and listen for promptings from the Holy Ghost.
Companion Study
The purpose of companion study is to (1) build unity in your companionship in order to teach by the Spirit and (2) focus on the progress of those you teach.
You can make companion study effective as you:
Share insights with each other from personal study, especially as it relates to the people you are teaching.
Prepare for specific teaching appointments, member visits, finding opportunities, and other activities.
Study material that helps you teach, find, and work more effectively.
When appropriate, practice applying what you are learning in role-play situations.
Discuss the people with whom you are working.
Make plans to apply what you are learning.
Throughout the day, continue to discuss the principles, goals, skills, and plans from companion study.
For New Missionaries: Additional Companion Study
The purpose of additional companion study is to provide more time for new missionaries to build on what was learned at missionary training centers.
As you participate in additional study, you are better able to understand and apply the principles of missionary work found in the scriptures and
Preach My Gospel.
Companion study is extended every day for approximately 30 to 60 minutes during your first 12 weeks in the field.
During this additional study, follow the same guidelines listed in the “Companion Study” section above, with a focus on the following chapters or sections from
Preach My Gospel.
Based on the needs of people you are teaching, you and your trainer determine together what to study and practice each day, how long to spend on a principle (for example, a few days or a couple of weeks), and when and how to apply the suggested activities in the “Application Ideas” column listed below.
Repeat these activities until you can confidently and effectively lead in every situation listed in the Application Ideas column.
Chapters and Sections (including the information boxes)
Application Ideas
Chapter 1: What Is My Purpose as a Missionary?
Chapter 3, Lesson 3: The Gospel of Jesus Christ
In lessons, the new missionary takes the lead in teaching about Jesus Christ and His gospel and in extending invitations.
Chapter 2: How Do I Study Effectively and Prepare to Teach?
Chapter 3: What Do I Study and Teach?
Chapter 4: How Do I Recognize and Understand the Spirit?
Chapter 10: sections “How to Begin Teaching,” “Adjust Your Teaching to Meet Needs,” “Ask Questions,” and “Listen”
The new missionary and trainer take turns leading in teaching situations, applying principles of how to begin teaching, teaching to meet needs, asking inspired questions, listening, and teaching others how to seek and recognize promptings from the Holy Ghost.
Chapter 5: What Is the Role of the Book of Mormon?
The new missionary takes the lead in teaching others about the Book of Mormon, inviting and helping them to read and pray and reading with them during follow-up visits.
Chapter 11: How Do I Help People Make and Keep Commitments?
The new missionary and trainer take turns leading when inviting people to make and keep commitments, following up, and making contact between visits.
The new missionary takes the lead when inviting and helping people to attend church, including giving a tour of a meetinghouse.
Chapter 8: How Do I Use Time Wisely?
The new missionary and trainer take turns conducting daily and weekly planning sessions, including contacting the ward mission leader and reporting missionary efforts during the missionary coordination meeting or ward council.
Chapter 9: How Do I Find People to Teach?
The new missionary takes the lead in finding situations.
Chapter 13: How Do I Work with Stake and Ward Leaders?
Chapter 10: section “Invite Members to Help You Teach”
The new missionary and trainer take turns planning and working with members to find new people to teach.
Chapter 7: How Can I Better Learn My Mission Language?
The new missionary and trainer have language study at least five days a week.
Apply principles from chapter 7 as you work together to create and follow a language study plan focused on developing the ability to do all the items listed above in the mission language.
You should also complete additional activities listed on the Missionary Portal.
Your trainer may also use video examples located on the Missionary Portal to help demonstrate principles to you.
You and your trainer should share what you are learning and applying in your weekly letter to the mission president.
By the end of the first 12 weeks, you should be able to, if called upon, train another missionary.
District Council
The purpose of district council is to “teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom” (
Doctrine and Covenants 88:77
).
District council is held each week for 60 to 90 minutes.
The district leader plans and conducts the district council and may invite other missionaries to help teach.
District council may include opportunities to:
Share insights from personal and companion study.
Practice the lessons in various settings.
Explain, demonstrate, and practice principles and skills described in
Preach My Gospel.
Discuss the progress and needs of people.
Discuss and address challenges in the district.
Share experiences and testimonies of missionary work.
Share experiences of working with members.
District leaders may use district council to receive reports regarding the efforts of missionaries in the district.
They should not set goals or quotas for other missionaries.
Zone Conferences and Mission Leadership Council
Zone conferences and mission leadership council are held under the direction of the mission president.
Features of
Preach My Gospel
Each chapter in
Preach My Gospel
has several features.
These features should help you get more from your study.
Use these features in a flexible manner based on your needs.
Study Journal
Preach My Gospel
frequently asks that you use a study journal to help you understand, clarify, and remember what you are learning.
Elder Richard G.
Scott taught, “Knowledge carefully recorded is knowledge available in time of need.
Spiritually sensitive information should be kept in a sacred place that communicates to the Lord how you treasure it.
This practice enhances the likelihood of your receiving further light” (“
Acquiring Spiritual Knowledge
,”
Ensign,
Nov.
1993, 86).
Review your study journal regularly to recall spiritual experiences, see new insights, and recognize your growth.
Your study journal may be a bound journal, a notebook, or a binder.
Record and organize your thoughts and impressions in a way that fits how you learn.
Develop your own system to easily access key information in the future.
Use it often to review, access, and apply what you have learned.
Use your study journal to take notes and record impressions during your personal and companion study, district council, zone conferences, mission leadership council, and interviews with the mission president.
Information Boxes
The boxes in
Preach My Gospel
will help you learn.
Some boxes preview or summarize key points.
Others help you focus your study, learn from the scriptures, apply what you learn, develop your abilities, and meet the needs of those you teach.
In most cases, these boxes are simply a starting point.
Prayerfully build on the activities in the boxes by developing new study activities and searching additional scriptures.
Image
from page 17 consider this
“Consider This.”
Most chapters begin with questions in a “Consider This” box.
These questions focus on the key points of the chapter and provide a framework for your study.
Use these questions to help you organize, understand, ponder, and apply what you learn.
Image
from page 11 remember this
“Remember This.”
Most chapters end with a “Remember This” box—a summary of the most important points from the chapter.
As you finish studying a chapter, review these statements to ensure you understand these main points.
Evaluate how well you are applying these points, and make plans to continue to apply what you have learned.
Image
from page 117 scripture study
“Scripture Study.”
These boxes direct you to scripture references that can build your understanding and testimony.
Build on these references by searching for additional scriptures.
Ask yourself additional related questions that will help you gain insight and apply what you learn.
Image
from page 2 activity
“Activity.”
Most chapters have activities for personal and companion study to enhance your learning and application.
Repeat these activities throughout your mission.
You will gain new insights each time you do because your needs—and the needs of those you are teaching—will change.
Image
from page 9 red box
Red Boxes.
These boxes have important information and suggestions for many teaching situations.
Stories
All the stories in
Preach My Gospel
are true, although the names of most of the people have been changed.
Each story illustrates several principles associated with missionary work.
As you read these stories, look for the principles they illustrate.
Ideas for Study and Application
Image
from page 171 ideas for study
Each chapter concludes with additional ideas for personal study, companion study, district council, zone conferences, and mission leadership council.
This rich resource of learning activities provides examples of effective ways to learn the material.
Be creative and seek inspiration to create additional activities as you study or teach one of these sections.
Complete these activities several times during your mission.
Missionaries Serving in Branches and Districts
Many missionaries serve in branches and districts.
Although this manual refers to
wards
and
stakes,
the same principles and approaches apply to
branches
and
districts.
The mission president will instruct you on any adjustments to make when working with branch and district leaders.
Use by Church Members
Preach My Gospel
is as much for members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as it is for the full-time missionaries of the Church.
The principles and doctrine taught in this guide are applicable to all members as they seek to build the Lord’s kingdom.
Frequent study of this manual will help members better answer gospel questions, learn and teach the doctrine of Christ’s gospel, fulfill their responsibilities as member missionaries, and foster unity with the full-time missionaries.
Notes
1
What Is My Purpose as a Missionary?
Image
Dan Jones preaching
Dan Jones, one of the greatest missionaries in this dispensation, preaches the gospel in Wales.
© 1993 Clark Kelley Price.
Do not copy.
Your Purpose
Invite others to come unto Christ by helping them receive the restored gospel through faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, repentance, baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
Consider This
What is my purpose as a missionary?
What is the gospel of Jesus Christ?
Why do we preach the gospel?
Why must I teach with power and authority?
What is the message of the Restoration?
Why is it so important?
What is my responsibility in helping others become converted?
How will I know whether I am a successful missionary?
Your Commission to Teach the Restored Gospel of Jesus Christ
You are surrounded by people.
You pass them on the street, visit them in their homes, and travel among them.
They are all children of God, your brothers and sisters.
God loves them just as He loves you.
Many of these people are searching for purpose in life.
They are concerned for their future and their families.
They need the sense of belonging that comes from the knowledge that they are children of God, members of His eternal family.
They want to feel secure in a world of changing values.
They want “peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come” (
Doctrine and Covenants 59:23
), but they are “kept from the truth because they know not where to find it” (
Doctrine and Covenants 123:12
).
The gospel of Jesus Christ as restored by the Savior through the Prophet Joseph Smith will bless them and their families, meet their spiritual needs, and help them fulfill their
deepest desires.
Although they may not know why, they need relief from feelings of loneliness and guilt that come from sin.
They need to experience the joy of redemption by receiving forgiveness of their sins and enjoying the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Image
Lehi’s Dream
As an authorized representative of Jesus Christ, you can teach people with power and authority that “redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah,” and that no one “can dwell in the presence of God, save it be through the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah” (
2 Nephi 2:6, 8
).
As people come to accept the restored gospel of Jesus Christ and receive the ordinances of baptism and confirmation by priesthood authority, they can be assured that they “are not cast off forever” (Book of Mormon, title page).
As your understanding of the Savior’s sacrifice, also known as the Atonement of Jesus Christ, grows, your desire to share the gospel will increase.
You will feel, as Lehi did, the “great … importance to make these things known unto the inhabitants of the earth” (
2 Nephi 2:8
).
You are called to represent Jesus Christ in helping people become clean from their sins and find greater happiness and joy.
You do this by inviting them to come unto Jesus Christ and become converted to His restored gospel.
President Dallin H.
Oaks taught: “We have also said much about the inspired summary of our work: ‘teach repentance and baptize converts.’ But converts to what?
To Jesus Christ our Savior and our Redeemer, to His doctrine, to His restored gospel, to His authority, to His name.
Conversion to the Lord Jesus Christ and His gospel should precede conversion to and membership in His Church. … Seek conversion to Jesus Christ and His gospel” (“Closing Remarks” [address given at the seminar for new mission presidents, June 28, 2017], 6, Church History Library, Salt Lake City).
To come to the Savior, people must have faith in Him unto repentance—making the necessary changes to bring their life into agreement with His teachings.
You can help people develop such faith by teaching them the restored gospel by the Spirit and inviting them to commit to live according to its teachings.
Keeping this commitment prepares them for the covenant of baptism and confirmation and the precious gift of the Holy Ghost.
They are to put off the “natural man” and become a Saint “through the atonement of Christ the Lord” (
Mosiah 3:19
).
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Examine the picture of the tree of life on this page as you study the vision of the tree of life found in
1 Nephi 8
and
11
.
In this vision, the tree of life symbolizes the love of God (see
1 Nephi 11:21–22
).
What did Lehi desire after he had eaten the fruit? (See
1 Nephi 8:10–18
.)
In the vision, what did the people need to do to be able to partake of the fruit?
What do we need to do to receive all the blessings of the Savior’s Atonement?
In what ways do commitments and covenants help us partake of these blessings?
As a missionary, what is your duty in helping others find and partake of the fruits of the gospel?
The Gospel Blesses Individuals and Families
The message of the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ blesses individuals and families.
Because of the Restoration we understand God’s purpose for His children: “The divine plan of happiness enables family relationships to be perpetuated beyond the grave.
Sacred ordinances and covenants available in holy temples make it possible for individuals to return to the presence of God and for families to be united eternally” (“
The Family: A Proclamation to the World
,”
Ensign
or
Liahona,
May 2017, 145).
“The most important of the Lord’s work you will ever do will be within the walls of your own homes.”
—President Harold B.
Lee
Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Harold B.
Lee,
(2011),
134
On earth, family associations can be the source of some of our greatest joy.
Satan is attacking the family on many fronts, and too many families are being destroyed by his efforts.
The message of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ is that all individuals are part of God’s family and that families can be united now and in eternity.
By living the principles of the gospel, families can experience peace, joy, and a sense of belonging and identity in this life.
Through the light of the gospel, families can resolve misunderstandings, contentions, and challenges.
Families torn by discord can be healed through repentance, forgiveness, and faith in the power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ. “Happiness in family life is most likely to be achieved when founded upon the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Successful marriages and families are established and maintained on principles of faith, prayer, repentance, forgiveness, respect, love, compassion, work, and wholesome recreational activities” (“
The Family: A Proclamation to the World
,” 145).
Strive to find and teach families—a father, mother, and children—who can support one another in living the gospel and eventually be sealed as a family unit by restored priesthood authority.
Teaching by the Spirit
Because the gospel of Jesus Christ is the “power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth” (
Romans 1:16
), the message of the Restoration of the gospel must be taught by divine power—the power of the Holy Ghost, who is the third member of the Godhead.
He is often called the Spirit, and one of His roles is to teach and testify of the truth.
As you teach by that power, the Holy Ghost will:
Teach you new truths and bring the doctrine you have studied to your remembrance (see
John 14:26
).
Give you words to speak in the very moment you need them (see
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85
).
Carry your message to the hearts of the people you teach (see
2 Nephi 33:1
).
Testify of the truthfulness of your message and confirm your words (see
Doctrine and Covenants 100:5–8
).
Help you discern the needs of the people you are teaching (see
Alma 12:7
).
The Spirit is essential for teaching the truths of the gospel in a way that builds faith in others.
As you strive to develop the faith to rely on the Spirit, you should:
Pray for the Spirit (see
Doctrine and Covenants 42:14
).
Purify your heart (see
Doctrine and Covenants 112:28
).
Keep the commandments (see
Doctrine and Covenants 20:77, 79
).
Diligently treasure up God’s word (see
Doctrine and Covenants 11:21
;
84:85
).
Teach so that others understand your message and are edified (see
Doctrine and Covenants 50:13–22
).
Exercise faith (see
Moroni 10:7
).
You have been set apart for your sacred calling with the promise that the Spirit will be given as you meet the requirements set by the Lord.
Enjoying the gifts of the Spirit should be one of your most earnest desires.
The Power and Authority of Your Calling
Missionaries are to go “in the power of the ordination wherewith [they have] been ordained, proclaiming glad tidings of great joy, even the everlasting gospel” (
Doctrine and Covenants 79:1
).
As a missionary, you have authority to preach the gospel.
President Dallin H.
Oaks has taught: “Whoever functions in an office or calling received from one who holds priesthood keys exercises priesthood authority in performing her or his assigned duties” (“
The Keys and Authority of the Priesthood
,”
Ensign
or
Liahona,
May 2014, 51).
As you prayerfully and worthily exercise that authority, you will receive spiritual power, which is evidence of the reality of your call.
Do not be afraid or shy about fulfilling this commission.
Just as the sons of Mosiah, you are to teach with the power and authority of God (see
Alma 17:2–3
).
If you hold the priesthood, you also have the authority to administer the ordinances thereof.
When you were set apart by priesthood authority, you received the right and privilege to represent the Lord.
You received a ministerial certificate that verifies that authority to the world.
President Spencer W.
Kimball said: “The setting apart may be taken literally; it is a setting apart from sin, apart from the carnal; apart from everything which is crude, low, vicious, cheap, or vulgar;
set apart
from the world to a higher plane of thought and activity.
The blessing is conditional upon faithful performance” (
The Teachings of Spencer W.
Kimball,
ed.
Edward L.
Kimball [1982], 478).
Along with your authority comes a responsibility to live worthy of your calling.
As the Lord’s representative, you are to be “an example of the believers” (
1 Timothy 4:12
).
Strive to live according to God’s commandments and keep the covenants you made in the temple; know the scriptures; be courteous, on time, and dependable; follow missionary standards of conduct, dress, and grooming; and love the people with whom you serve and work.
Honor Christ’s name by your actions.
In addition to authority, you are also to exercise power in your work.
The authority that you have received can lead to power.
Indeed, spiritual power is one evidence that your authority is real.
Spiritual power is a gift that makes it possible for you to do your work more effectively.
Your power and authority should be evident as you work and teach.
Power may be manifest in many things you do, such as:
Being led by the Spirit to say what the Lord would have you say at just the right moment (see
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85
).
Receiving guidance about where to go or what to do (see
Doctrine and Covenants 28:15
;
31:11
;
75:26–27
).
Having your testimony confirmed by the witness of the Spirit (see
2 Nephi 33:1
;
Doctrine and Covenants 100:5–8
).
Taking part in ordinances of salvation (see
Doctrine and Covenants 84:19–20
).
Giving priesthood blessings if you are an elder (see
James 5:14–15
).
Praying with and for the people you work with (see
Alma 6:6
;
8:18–22
;
10:7–11
;
31:26–35
;
Doctrine and Covenants 75:19
).
Expressing love for the Lord, your family, fellow missionaries, and the people you serve.
Scripture Study
How do you receive power?
Alma 17:2–3
Doctrine and Covenants 53:3
1 Corinthians 2:4
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Look at the painting of Christ ordaining the Apostles, and then read
John 15:1–16
.
In what way is Christ the vine?
How are you a branch of that vine?
How does your setting apart relate to this relationship?
Read again your ministerial certificate.
Record your feelings and thoughts about what you read.
Each time you study this chapter, repeat this process.
Note how your feelings change over time.
Study
Doctrine and Covenants 109:13–15, 21–30, 38–39, 55–57
, which are excerpts from the Prophet Joseph Smith’s inspired dedicatory prayer for the Kirtland Temple.
What blessings did Joseph Smith request for the faithful?
Image
Christ Ordaining the Twelve Apostles
The Gospel of Jesus Christ
The gospel of Jesus Christ defines both your message and your purpose; that is, it provides both the “what” and the “why” of missionary work.
The Book of Mormon teaches plainly the gospel of Jesus Christ.
According to the Book of Mormon the gospel of Jesus Christ includes (1) faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; (2) repentance through the Atonement of Christ; (3) baptism by immersion in Christ’s name; (4) the gift of the Holy Ghost; and (5) enduring to the end (see
2 Nephi 31
;
3 Nephi 11
; and
3 Nephi 27
).
It also teaches us what we need to believe about Christ if we are to have faith in Him.
For example, when He presented His gospel to the people in the New World, the Savior said: “I came into the world to do the will of my Father, because my Father sent me.
And my Father sent me that I might be lifted up upon the cross; and after that I had been lifted up upon the cross, that I might draw all men unto me, that as I have been lifted up by men even so should men be lifted up by the Father, to stand before me, to be judged of their works, whether they be good or whether they be evil” (
3 Nephi 27:13–14
).
The Savior added, “Verily, verily, I say unto you, this is my gospel; and ye know the things that ye must do in my church; for the works which ye have seen me do that shall ye also do; for that which ye have seen me do even that shall ye do” (
3 Nephi 27:21
).
Additionally, the Book of Mormon provides insights to the kind of things we must do if we are to endure to the end, including the endowment and sealing ordinances of the temple, praying, fasting, studying the scriptures, following the example of the Savior, and obtaining Christlike attributes.
In this context, the Book of Mormon teaches that we can become “saints through the atonement of Christ the Lord” (
Mosiah 3:19
).
“Preach the first principles of the Gospel—preach them over again: you will find that day after day new ideas and additional light concerning them will be revealed to you.
You can enlarge upon them so as to comprehend them clearly.
You will then be able to make them more plainly understood by those [you] teach.”
—Hyrum Smith
History, 1838–1856, volume E-1 [1 July 1843–30 April 1844], 1994, Church History Library, Salt Lake City, Utah
A purpose of the gospel of Jesus Christ is to cleanse people of their sins so they can receive His mercy at the day of judgment.
Therefore, the focus of this book and, more important, the work you do each day is to invite others to come unto Christ by helping them receive the restored gospel through faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, repentance, baptism, receiving the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
Individuals and families begin to follow Christ as they exercise faith in Him and repent of their sins.
That faith is developed as they follow the Savior’s example by humbling themselves, seeking God’s will, and obeying God’s commandments (see
2 Nephi 31:6–7
;
3 Nephi 27:13–14
).
They receive a remission of sins through baptism and by receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost from one who has authority from God to perform these ordinances.
They then endure to the end, or, in other words, they continue throughout their lives in exercising faith in Jesus Christ, repenting, and renewing the covenants they have made.
These are not just steps that they experience once in their lives; rather, when repeated throughout life these principles become an increasingly rewarding pattern of living.
In fact, it is the only way of living that will bring peace of conscience and enable Heavenly Father’s children to return to live in His presence.
Obedience to Jesus Christ is a lifelong commitment.
Through exercising faith, repenting, being baptized and committing to serve Christ, and then receiving the Holy Ghost, we can experience healing, forgiveness of sins, and complete conversion to the Savior and His gospel.
The doctrine of Christ can change how people believe and how they live; it also directs how you work and focuses your efforts.
Help people gain faith in Jesus Christ unto repentance by teaching and testifying that the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the authority of the priesthood have been restored and by inviting them to live by His teachings.
Scripture Study
What are the doctrine and principles of the gospel of Christ as found in these verses?
2 Nephi 31:10–21
3 Nephi 11:31–41
3 Nephi 27:13–22
The Message of the Restoration: The Foundation of Faith
No matter where you serve or whom you teach, center your teaching on the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. “The Lord will bless you as you teach the message of the Restoration to a world that desperately needs the gospel of Jesus Christ” (“Statement on Missionary Work,” First Presidency letter, Dec.
11, 2002).
As you study the doctrine in the missionary lessons, you will come to see that we have one message: Through a modern prophet, God has restored knowledge about the plan of salvation, which is centered on the Atonement of Jesus Christ and is fulfilled by living the principles and ordinances of the gospel.
Make sure that everyone you teach clearly understands the following:
God is our literal Father in Heaven.
He loves us.
Every person on earth is a child of God and a member of God’s family.
Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is our Savior and Redeemer.
Our loving Father in Heaven reached out to His children throughout biblical history by revealing His gospel to prophets.
Sadly, many people rejected that gospel; even some of those who accepted it changed the doctrine and ordinances and fell into unbelief and apostasy.
Our Father in Heaven sent His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to earth.
The Savior performed miracles and taught His gospel.
He accomplished the Atonement and was resurrected.
Beginning with the First Vision, God has again reached out in love to His children.
He restored the gospel of Jesus Christ and His priesthood authority and organized His Church on the earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Because of the Savior’s Resurrection, all people will be resurrected and saved, or gain salvation, from physical death.
This is an unconditional gift.
People may also be saved, or gain salvation, from individual spiritual death through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, by their faith in Him, by living in obedience to the laws and ordinances of His gospel, and by serving Him.
In addition to gaining salvation, we can also qualify for exaltation by being true to covenants made with God in the holy temple (see
2 Nephi 31:14–20
).
The Book of Mormon is convincing evidence of the restored gospel.
As you help those you are teaching see the pattern of apostasy and restoration, they will be prepared to understand the great need for the latter-day Restoration.
They will see the need to accept the restored gospel, receive the ordinances of salvation by the authority of the restored priesthood, and follow the way to eternal life.
Help people recognize that the Church is not just another religion, nor is it an American church.
Rather, it is a restoration of the “fulness of [the] gospel” (
Doctrine and Covenants 1:23
), the same as was revealed and taught from the beginning.
The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ is convincing evidence that Joseph Smith was a prophet and that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored.
It is
the keystone of our religion, the most powerful resource for teaching this message.
Some important truths restored through Joseph Smith include the knowledge that God is our Father and that we are His spirit children, that we lived with Him before birth, and that families can be exalted and live together forever in God’s presence through Christ’s Atonement by obeying the laws and ordinances of the gospel.
The Book of Mormon is evidence of the love of God for His children.
It bears witness of Jesus Christ and His divine calling as Savior of the world.
It shows that God speaks to His children.
As you teach and testify, invite people to read the Book of Mormon and pray about its message.
Each person you teach must decide whether to accept the Book of Mormon as revelation from God.
Trust the remarkable promise in
Moroni 10:3–5
.
Do all you can to persuade people to read the book, to help them understand it, and to motivate them to ask God sincerely whether it is true.
The witness of the Holy Ghost becomes the cornerstone of their faith that Christ has restored His Church.
Help those you teach to receive that spiritual confirmation.
Scripture Study
How should you use the Book of Mormon in your missionary work?
1 Nephi 13:39
2 Nephi 29:8–10
Moroni 10:3–5
Doctrine and Covenants 20:5–16
Doctrine and Covenants 42:12–14
Activity: Personal Study
Imagine that you are going to write a paragraph about the message of the Restoration on social media or for a local newspaper.
In your study journal write a title that describes the central message.
Then record your thoughts and feelings about this message, including how understanding it better has changed the way you live and the way you view the world around you.
Helping Others Make Commitments: The Door to Faith and Repentance
Help people qualify for baptism and confirmation by teaching them true doctrine and inviting them to repent and change their lives through making and keeping commitments that build their faith in Jesus Christ.
These commitments prepare people to make and keep sacred covenants.
Elder Jeffrey R.
Holland taught: “The first thing you will do when [someone] tells you he or she had not read and prayed about the Book of Mormon is be devastated! … Much of the time we are just too casual about all of this.
This is eternal life.
This is the salvation of the children of God.
Eternity hangs in the balance. … It is the most important path [a person] will ever walk.
But if he or she doesn’t know that, at least you do! … So take control of this situation.
Teach with power and authority, and then be devastated if the first steps toward commandment-keeping and covenant-keeping have not been successfully begun” (“Making and Keeping Covenants,” missionary satellite broadcast, Apr.
1997).
As you teach people to understand the Restoration of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, you “declare repentance” (
Doctrine and Covenants 15:6
).
Repentance involves a change of heart and a desire to forsake sin and serve God.
It involves humbly yielding to the Spirit and submitting to God’s will.
It requires that people increase their commitment to live in agreement with God’s will.
Repentance requires a sincere and lasting change of thoughts, desires, habits, and actions.
It is a positive experience that brings joy and peace.
Be bold and loving in helping people understand what they must do to repent.
By inviting people to make commitments, you can effectively raise a voice of both warning and hope.
Scripture Study
What do these scriptures teach about declaring repentance?
Alma 29:1–4
Alma 42:31
Alma 62:45
Doctrine and Covenants 14:8
Doctrine and Covenants 15:6
;
16:6
Baptism and Confirmation
Baptizing and confirming the people you teach is central to your purpose.
Baptism is for the remission of sins, and the gift of the Holy Ghost brings a host of blessings to those who live worthy of it.
Through these ordinances people enter the gate and continue on the path to eternal life and exaltation.
President Dallin H.
Oaks said: “We do not preach and teach in order to ‘bring people into the Church’ or to increase the membership of the Church.
We do not preach and teach just to persuade people to live better lives. … We invite all to come unto Christ by repentance and baptism and confirmation in order to open the doors of the celestial kingdom to the sons and daughters of God.
No one else can do this” (“The Purpose of Missionary Work,” missionary satellite broadcast, Apr.
1995).
As you teach the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, help people understand the sacred nature and need for both baptism by water and by the Spirit and confirmation as members of the Church.
Help them realize that receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost is a great blessing in this life and a key to their salvation.
The Holy Ghost will “teach [them] all things” (
John 14:26
).
President Boyd K.
Packer taught: “When you are teaching [people] and preparing them for baptism by water, you must also think of the gift of the Holy Ghost—baptism by fire.
Think of it as one sentence.
First comes the baptism of water and then the baptism of fire” (“The Gift of the Holy Ghost: What Every Missionary Should Know—and Every Member As Well” [address given at the seminar for new mission presidents, June 2003]).
The Prophet Joseph Smith taught, “Baptism by water is but half a baptism, and is good for nothing without the other half—that is, the baptism of the Holy Ghost” (
Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith
[2007],
95
).
Help those you teach understand that to qualify for baptism, confirmation, and receiving the Holy Ghost, they must meet the conditions given in
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
Qualifications for Baptism
Humble themselves before God.
Desire to be baptized.
Come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits.
Repent of all their sins.
Are willing to take upon themselves the name of Jesus Christ.
Have a determination to serve Christ to the end.
Manifest by their works that they have received the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins.
After worthy converts are baptized, they are confirmed members of the Church and the gift of the Holy Ghost is conferred upon them.
This confirmation occurs under the direction of the bishop or branch president in a sacrament meeting soon after the baptism.
While the two ordinances are separated by a brief time, confirmation complements and completes baptism.
Scripture Study
In what ways is the gift of the Holy Ghost one of the greatest gifts we can receive?
3 Nephi 19:1–13
Doctrine and Covenants 45:56–57
John 3:5
John 14:26
Galatians 5:22–25
Topical Guide,
“Holy Ghost, Gift of”
Why should converts desire the gift of the Holy Ghost?
2 Nephi 31:12–17
2 Nephi 32:1–5
Acts 8:14–17
Acts 19:1–6
Activity: Companion Study
Search the following scriptures and make a list of the qualifications and covenant of baptism.
Discuss with your companion how to teach those requirements to others.
2 Nephi 31:13
Mosiah 18:8–10
Alma 7:14–16
3 Nephi 11:21–41
Moroni 6:1–4
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
Establishing The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
When people have been baptized and confirmed members of the Church, continue to work with ward leaders and members to help these new converts adjust to their new life and continue their spiritual growth.
The Church is established as people who have testimonies are baptized and confirmed, keep their covenants, prepare actively to go to the temple, and help strengthen the ward or branch.
Converts who have member friends, who are given responsibility, and who are nourished by God’s word will grow in testimony and faith.
Missionaries, local leaders, and Church members should not turn away from their responsibility to nourish and strengthen new members.
Go About Doing Good
During His mortal ministry, the Savior “took upon him the form of a servant” (
Philippians 2:7
).
He went about “doing good” (
Acts 10:38
) and “preaching the gospel” (
Matthew 4:23
).
As you follow this example, you will find those whom you can serve and who will receive you.
Through service, you fulfill the two great commandments of loving God and your neighbor (see
Matthew 22:36–40
).
Through service, you and those who are prepared for the restored gospel may also come together in a powerful, inspiring way.
Your good works will help some people recognize you as a servant of God and may lead to opportunities to teach the restored gospel.
However, Christlike service should be offered as a sincere expression of love for those around you, without the expectation of people listening to a gospel message or accepting a teaching visit.
Many missionaries’ experience with service before their missions involved planned “service projects,” such as helping someone move, cleaning a local meetinghouse, or helping someone with yardwork.
As a missionary, you will offer such planned service each week (see the
Missionary Handbook
for additional information).
Under the direction of your mission president, you may find opportunities to serve in the community through JustServe (where it is approved), and the Church’s humanitarian and disaster response efforts.
The type of service described in this section focuses on unplanned opportunities.
This type of service involves listening to the Spirit to recognize opportunities for small acts of kindness that you can offer to God’s children.
Pray and be aware of opportunities throughout each day to do good.
“Do you want to be happy?
Forget yourself and get lost in this great cause.
Lend your efforts to helping people. … Stand higher, lift those with feeble knees, hold up the arms of those that hang down.
Live the gospel of Jesus Christ.”
—President Gordon B.
Hinckley
Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Gordon B.
Hinckley
(2016),
209
Guidelines
Remember the following guidelines as you seek to do good:
Stay with your companion.
Preserve the sacred nature of your call.
Keep the missionary rules, and do not donate or use your money.
See your
Missionary Handbook
for guidelines concerning weekly community service.
Scripture Study
What was the role of service in the Savior’s life?
3 Nephi 17:7, 21
Matthew 8:1–4
Matthew 9:1–8
Mark 1:21–28
John 4:46–54
What was the role of service in Ammon’s and Aaron’s missions?
Alma 17:19–25
Alma 18:8–10
Alma 22:3
What does the Lord ask you to do?
3 Nephi 27:21
A Successful Missionary
Your success as a missionary is measured primarily by your commitment to find, teach, baptize, and confirm people and to help them become faithful members of the Church who enjoy the presence of the Holy Ghost.
Avoid comparing yourself to other missionaries and measuring the outward results of your efforts against theirs.
Remember that people have agency to choose whether to accept your message.
Your responsibility is to teach clearly and powerfully so they can make an informed choice.
Some may not accept your message even when they have received a spiritual witness that it is true.
You will be saddened because you love them and desire their salvation.
You should not, however, become discouraged; discouragement will weaken your faith.
If you lower your expectations, your effectiveness will decrease, your desire will weaken, and you will have greater difficulty following the Spirit.
You can know you have been a successful missionary when you:
Feel the Spirit testify to people through you.
Love people and desire their salvation.
Obey with exactness.
Live so that you can receive and know how to follow the Spirit, who will show you where to go, what to do, and what to say.
Develop Christlike attributes.
Work effectively every day, do your very best to bring souls to Christ, and seek earnestly to learn and improve.
Help establish and strengthen the Church (the stake and ward) wherever you are assigned to work.
Warn people of the consequences of sin.
Invite them to make and keep commitments.
Teach and serve other missionaries.
Go about doing good and serving people at every opportunity, whether or not they accept your message.
When you have done your very best, you may still experience disappointments, but you will not be disappointed in yourself.
You can feel certain that the Lord is pleased when you feel the Spirit working through you.
Scripture Study
How do servants of the Lord feel about the work?
How do servants of the Lord influence those they serve?
Mosiah 28:3
Alma 8:14–15
Helaman 10:3–5
3 Nephi 28:4–10
Ether 12:13–15
Doctrine and Covenants 15:4–6
;
16:4–6
Doctrine and Covenants 68:2–6
Activity: Personal Study
Read
Helaman 10:1–5
and
3 Nephi 7:17–18
.
How did the Lord feel about these missionaries and their service?
Think about the missionary efforts of Abinadi and Ammon (see
Mosiah 11–18
;
Alma 17–20, 23–24
).
Why were both missionaries successful even though the immediate results of their efforts were different?
Record what you learn in your study journal.
Remember This
Your purpose is to invite others to come unto Christ by helping them receive the restored gospel through faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, repentance, baptism, receiving the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
The restored gospel of Jesus Christ is the only way by which we can find eternal happiness.
Your calling gives you authority; keeping your covenants gives you power.
The fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ was restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
The Book of Mormon is evidence that Joseph Smith was a prophet.
You help people live the gospel by inviting them to make and keep commitments.
You show your love for the Lord and gratitude for His Atonement by bringing souls unto Him.
You are successful when you are obedient, live righteously, and do your best in helping others live the gospel.
Missionary Work
Following are statements made by some of the Presidents of the Church in this dispensation.
President Joseph Smith (1830–1844)
“After all that has been said, the greatest and most important duty is to preach the Gospel” (
Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith
[2007],
330
).
President George Albert Smith (1945–1951)
“We will attain our exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom only on the condition that we share with our Father’s other children the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and observe the commandments that will enrich our lives here and hereafter” (
Sharing the Gospel with Others,
190).
President David O.
McKay (1951–1970)
“Every member … a missionary!” (in Conference Report, Apr.
1959, 122).
“True Christianity is love in action.
There is no better way to manifest love for God than to show an unselfish love for your fellow men.
This is the spirit of missionary work” (
Gospel Ideals
[1954], 129).
President Ezra Taft Benson (1985–1994)
“We are commanded by God to take this gospel to all the world.
That is the cause that must unite us today.
Only the gospel will save the world from the calamity of its own self-destruction.
Only the gospel will unite men of all races and nationalities in peace.
Only the gospel will bring joy, happiness, and salvation to the human family” (
The Teachings of Ezra Taft Benson
[1988], 167).
President Howard W.
Hunter (1994–1995)
“What does the Atonement [of Jesus Christ] have to do with missionary work?
Any time we experience the blessings of [the Savior’s] Atonement in our lives, we cannot help but have a concern for the welfare of [others]. … A great indicator of one’s personal conversion is the desire to share the gospel with others” (
Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Howard W.
Hunter
[2015],
127–28
).
President Gordon B.
Hinckley (1995–2008)
“We are here to assist our Father in His work and His glory, ‘to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man’ (
Moses 1:39
).
Your obligation is as serious in your sphere of responsibility as is my obligation in my sphere” (
“This is the Work of the Master
,”
Ensign,
May 1995, 71).
“Let there be cultivated an awareness in every member’s heart of his own potential for bringing others to a knowledge of the truth.
Let him work at it.
Let him pray with great earnestness about it” (“
Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep
,”
Ensign,
May 1999, 106).
President Thomas S.
Monson (2008–2018)
“Remember that this work is not yours and mine alone.
It is the Lord’s work, and when we are on the Lord’s errand, we are entitled to the Lord’s help.
Remember that the Lord will shape the back to bear the burden placed upon it” (“
To Learn, to Do, to Be
,”
Ensign
or
Liahona,
Nov.
2008, 62).
President Russell M.
Nelson (2018–present)
“The Lord’s message is for everyone.
This is a global work. … The message is to invite all God’s children on both sides of the veil to come unto their Savior and enjoy the blessings of the temple, have enduring joy, and qualify for eternal life.
And that will bring hope, help, and lift to all people” (“President Nelson Bolsters Faith from London, First Stop on Global Tour,”
Church News,
Apr.
13, 2018,
lds.org/church/news/president-nelson-bolsters-faith-from-london-first-stop-on-global-tour
).
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Prepare a two-minute talk on one of the questions at the beginning of this chapter.
Be prepared to share your talk with your companion or with other missionaries in a district council.
Ask recent converts to tell their conversion stories.
What helped them gain “faith unto repentance” (
Alma 34:17
)?
Why did they decide to be baptized and confirmed?
What was it like for them to become new members of the Church?
How could missionaries have served them better?
Consider what it means to raise the voice of warning (see
Jacob 3:12
;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:4
;
38:41
;
63:57–58
;
88:81
;
112:5
;
Ezekiel 3:17–21
;
33:1–12
).
Write in your own words what it means and how you can go about doing it.
Read
Mormon 8
and
Moroni 1
and 10.
As you read, ask yourself, “What was Moroni’s hope for our day?
What did he want us to do with the Book of Mormon?
What would I say to Moroni if I had the chance?” Record your thoughts in your study journal.
Consider the events in your life that have strengthened your testimony of Joseph Smith and the Restoration.
Then write an answer to this question: What has helped you know that Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ appeared to Joseph Smith?
Companion Study
Share with each other your answers to the questions from “Consider This” at the beginning of the chapter.
Share with each other what your hopes and desires were for your mission when you received your mission call.
To what extent does your experience thus far meet your expectations?
How can you meet these expectations more fully?
Read and discuss “
Ministry
” in the Bible Dictionary.
Select one of the following great missionaries, and read the references listed.
As you read, discuss how this missionary (1) understood and committed himself to his calling, (2) demonstrated his attitude and desire for the work, and (3) helped others accept the gospel.
Alma (
Mosiah 18
)
Aaron (
Alma 22
;
23:1–6
)
Nephi and Lehi (
Helaman 5
)
Peter (
Acts 2
)
Paul (
Acts 16
)
In the hymnbook, select two hymns under the topic “
Restoration of the Gospel
” (see page 424).
Read or sing the hymns.
Discuss the meaning of the words.
Read together “
Faith
,” “
Repentance
,” “
Baptism
,” and “
Holy Ghost
” in the Bible Dictionary.
Read and discuss all the scripture references in each entry.
Read together “
Dispensations
” in the Bible Dictionary.
Also read and discuss
Doctrine and Covenants 136:37
.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite two or three recent converts to share their conversion experiences.
How did they feel about the missionaries?
about what the missionaries taught?
about keeping commitments?
What most strongly influenced their conversion?
Invite a priesthood leader to talk to the missionaries about the opportunities and difficulties of building the Church in your area.
Read
Alma 18
and discuss these questions: What were Lamoni’s feelings at the beginning of the story?
How did they change?
What feelings must a person have in order to receive the blessings of the gospel?
Read
Alma 34:15–16
, and compare it with Lamoni’s story.
How does Christ’s Atonement enable us to obtain mercy?
Discuss what it means to be a successful missionary.
Invite missionaries to give specific examples of success.
Divide the missionaries into three groups.
Assign one group to read
Acts 2:36–38
(Peter), another group to read
Acts 16:25–33
(Paul), and the final group to read
Mosiah 18:8–11
(Alma).
Ask each group to answer the question, “What did this missionary do to help others increase in faith in Christ, repent, and receive baptism and confirmation?” Discuss what the missionaries learn from these stories that could help them exercise faith when inviting people to repent, be baptized, and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Several days before the meeting, assign several missionaries to ponder selected questions from “Consider This” at the beginning of the chapter.
Ask each missionary to prepare a two- to three-minute talk on his or her assigned question.
During the district council or zone conference, allow the missionaries to give their talks.
Following the talks, discuss what they learned and how they could use it in their missionary work.
Divide the missionaries into four groups.
Ask each group to list as many truths, covenants, and ordinances as they can that were restored and revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Have each group share their results.
Invite missionaries to share how any of the truths revealed through the Restoration have influenced their lives.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
During interviews or in conversation, periodically ask missionaries to share with you:
Their testimony of Jesus Christ.
Their testimony of the restored gospel and the mission of Joseph Smith.
Their testimony of the Book of Mormon.
Their thoughts about their purpose as a missionary.
Invite missionaries to record in their study journal what they feel is the purpose of their mission.
During an interview or in conversation, ask them to share what they have written.
Send a letter of congratulations to new members.
2
How Do I Study Effectively and Prepare to Teach?
Image
Joseph Smith Seeks Wisdom from the Bible
Consider This
Why is it important to study the gospel?
How will my study affect those I teach?
Why do I need to continually treasure up the doctrine of the gospel of Jesus Christ?
How can I effectively learn the doctrine of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ and prepare to teach others?
How can I improve my personal and companion study?
The Lord has said, “Seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men” (
Doctrine and Covenants 11:21
).
To teach effectively, you need to obtain spiritual knowledge.
For you to grow in the gospel and stay on the path that leads to eternal life, you need to develop a habit of gospel study (see
Doctrine and Covenants 131:6
).
The study habits you develop as a missionary will bless you personally and help those you teach grow in their faith in the Savior.
Effective daily study should begin with prayer.
Study is an act of faith requiring the use of personal agency.
Many missionaries struggle to know how to study effectively.
Some rely heavily on others or on structured programs to tell them what and how to study.
While learning from a good teacher is very important, it is more important for you to have meaningful learning experiences on your own.
Getting good results from your study depends on having a strong desire to learn, studying with “real intent” (
Moroni 10:4
), “hunger[ing] and thirst[ing] after righteousness” (
Matthew 5:6
), and searching for answers to the questions and concerns of those you are teaching.
Activity: Personal Study
Look at the picture of Joseph Smith on the previous page.
Read
Joseph Smith—History 1:11–13
.
Answer the following questions in your study journal.
How did Joseph Smith’s reading and pondering of
James 1:5
lead him to receive revelation?
What influence did his study have on future generations?
What effect has his decision to study and seek had in your life?
How has your gospel study influenced your life and the lives of others?
Scripture Study
How does the Lord want us to approach gospel study?
2 Nephi 4:15–16
2 Nephi 32:3
Doctrine and Covenants 58:26–28
Doctrine and Covenants 88:118
Learning by the Holy Ghost
Image
Enos praying
Your gospel study is most effective when you are taught by the Holy Ghost.
Always begin your gospel study by praying for the Holy Ghost to help you learn.
He will bring knowledge and conviction that will bless your life and allow you to bless the lives of others.
Your faith in Jesus Christ will increase.
Your desire to repent and improve will grow.
This kind of study prepares you for service, offers solace, resolves problems, and gives you the strength to endure to the end.
Successful gospel study requires desire and action. “For he that diligently seeketh shall find; and the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these times as in times of old” (
1 Nephi 10:19
).
Like Enos, as you hunger to know the words of eternal life and as you allow these words to “[sink] deep into [your] heart” (
Enos 1:3
), the Holy Ghost will open your mind and heart to greater light and understanding.
Learning the gospel is also a process of receiving revelation (see
Jacob 4:8
).
To Oliver Cowdery the Lord said: “Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me.
But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right” (
Doctrine and Covenants 9:7–8
).
As you study, pay careful attention to ideas that come to your mind and feelings that come to your heart, particularly regarding the people you are teaching.
Scripture Study
What is the Holy Ghost’s role in helping us learn the gospel?
2 Nephi 32:5
Alma 5:45–46
Moroni 10:5
Doctrine and Covenants 11:12–14
Doctrine and Covenants 39:5–6
John 14:26
John 16:13
1 Corinthians 2:9–14
Live What You Learn
“True doctrine, understood, changes attitudes and behavior.
The study of the [doctrine] of the gospel will improve behavior quicker than a study of behavior will improve behavior.”
—President Boyd K.
Packer
“
Little Children
,”
Ensign,
Nov.
1986, 17
As you feel the joy that comes from understanding the gospel, you will want to apply what you learn.
Strive to live in harmony with your understanding.
Doing so will strengthen your faith, knowledge, and testimony.
Acting on what you have learned will bring added and enduring understanding (see
John 7:17
).
As you treasure up the words of the scriptures and latter-day prophets by study and faith, your desire to share the gospel will increase.
You are promised that the Spirit will help you know what to say when you teach.
The Lord said, “Neither take ye thought beforehand what ye shall say; but treasure up in your minds continually the words of life, and it shall be given you in the very hour that portion that shall be meted unto every man” (
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85
).
Scripture Study
What do the scriptures teach about learning the gospel?
1 Nephi 10:17–19
Doctrine and Covenants 11:21–22
Doctrine and Covenants 50:19–22
Doctrine and Covenants 88:118
Studying and Preparing to Teach the Lessons
The missionary lessons (found in
chapter 3
) contain the baptismal interview questions, commitments, and doctrine that you are to teach.
In the lessons you will also find useful ideas for teaching.
However, the lessons do not tell you everything to say—or how to say it.
Instead, you are responsible to thoroughly understand the lessons and teach by the Spirit in your own words.
Teach so that others will strengthen their faith in Jesus Christ, desire to repent, and enter into covenants with God.
Effective teachers are always working to improve their knowledge and abilities.
Although you will not teach all you know about the doctrine, your increased knowledge will build your testimony and your ability to teach with spiritual power.
You will know you are using the lessons as intended when you:
Seek and follow the Spirit as you prepare and teach the lessons.
Strive to consistently study, treasure up, and apply the doctrine in your life.
Work with your companion to make specific plans for each person you teach.
Focus on the central messages and doctrine as you teach.
Adjust the order, length, and pace of the lessons to meet the needs of those you teach.
Teach often from the scriptures with clarity and conviction.
Bear testimony frequently.
Help others make and keep commitments that lead to baptism and confirmation.
Doing these things will enable you to help others gain a testimony of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
As you begin your mission, you will need to learn the organization of the message and acquire the necessary teaching skills.
As you gain experience, you will want to deepen your knowledge and enhance your teaching ability.
As you prepare for teaching appointments, you will want to have a lesson plan that enables you to teach by the Spirit and help others make and keep commitments.
The guidelines below are suggestions that you can apply throughout your mission.
However, do not feel that you must use every guideline in every situation.
Instead, apply these guidelines to meet your needs and as you are guided by the Spirit.
If you are learning a new language, apply these guidelines in your native language first and then in your mission language.
Image
sister missionaries studying
Focus on commitments and baptismal interview questions.
Teach so that people will make commitments and prepare for baptism and confirmation.
Make sure you understand the
baptismal interview questions and commitments
for each lesson.
Learn what someone should know, feel, and do because of your teaching.
Work with your companion to explain these principles in your own words with clarity and power.
Learn and apply the doctrine.
The doctrine is the foundation of the lesson.
Prayerfully study the scriptures, lessons, and other approved resources to gain a solid understanding of the doctrine.
Search for material that supports the doctrine of the lessons.
Commit to memory the sequence of doctrinal principles.
Apply what you learn.
Record what you learn in your study journal.
Share what you learn with other missionaries.
Organize and summarize what to teach.
To prepare to teach the doctrine clearly and with spiritual power, organize and summarize what you will teach into a lesson plan.
Focus on the doctrine, baptismal interview questions, and commitments of the lessons.
Enhance your lesson plan with scriptures, questions, examples, and appropriate and approved media.
These should vary according to the length of your teaching appointments.
You should not create an entirely new lesson plan for each person you teach, but you should continually refine your lesson plans and modify them to meet specific needs.
When you are first creating a lesson plan, strive to be simple and brief.
Enhance your lesson plans as you gain experience.
Focus on needs.
While the doctrine of the gospel applies to everyone, you should adjust your teaching approach to meet the needs of those you teach.
As you study doctrine and create lesson plans, identify areas where you can adjust your approach to meet potential needs.
Review and refine these adjustments as you prepare for specific appointments.
Identify the invitations you will extend.
Focus on the ultimate goal of helping those you teach receive the restored gospel of Jesus Christ through baptism and confirmation.
Prepare to answer questions.
As a missionary, you will hear many questions.
Record these questions in your study journal.
Search the scriptures and other approved resources for answers.
Pray for understanding.
Record the answers in your study journal.
Review what you find with other missionaries.
Add frequent questions and their answers to your study journal for reference.
Teach the lesson.
Teaching is a powerful opportunity to improve your knowledge and ability.
As you learn the doctrine and organize lesson plans, teach your companion and other missionaries.
Try new explanations, approaches, experiences, questions, and ways to invite others to make commitments.
Ask for ideas and suggestions.
Evaluate your teaching.
After every teaching situation, evaluate the experience.
Did you focus on the doctrine?
Is their faith in Christ and His Atonement growing?
Did you invite them to repent and to make and keep commitments?
Did you teach them how to pray and study the scriptures?
Are they praying, studying the Book of Mormon, and attending church?
Did you work to prepare them for baptism and confirmation?
Did you use effective questions?
Did you share your testimony?
Did you ask for referrals?
Adjust your lesson plans as you improve.
As you learn the lessons, continue seeking a deep knowledge of the doctrine.
Actively work to teach with greater power.
As you study in prayer and faith, your knowledge and testimony will grow.
However, do not try to teach all that you know.
Teach the message clearly, simply, and based on individual needs, following the Spirit to teach “that portion that shall be meted unto every man” (
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85
).
Defining Words
We have a powerful message with a unique vocabulary.
Just as a physician speaks differently in the family waiting room than in the operating room, so too must you learn to speak so that those who are unfamiliar with our message can understand what you are teaching.
To prepare to help others understand unfamiliar words, study the list of key definitions and terms in the “Ideas for Teaching” section of each applicable lesson.
Become familiar with the definitions provided.
Use approved resources to find definitions for other words.
Write these definitions in your study journal.
Share the definitions with your companion and others to see if you understand.
If the definitions are unclear to others, revise your definitions based on the material you have studied.
As you teach, seek to discern whether a word or principle is new to the person you are teaching.
Take time to explain unfamiliar words or principles.
Remember to teach for understanding so that you and those you teach “are edified and rejoice together” (
Doctrine and Covenants 50:22
).
Activity: Personal Study
Turn to the lesson “
The Message of the Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
,” located in chapter 3.
Read the list of key definitions in the “Ideas for Teaching” section.
Locate three other words in the lesson that might be unfamiliar to those you teach.
Follow the suggestions given above in creating a definition for each.
Study Ideas and Suggestions
Each of the ideas and suggestions in this section can make your study time more rewarding and spiritually uplifting.
Consider the following as you plan your study:
Always begin with a prayer.
Plan study activities that will build your faith in the Savior and use your time productively.
Plan your study around people, their needs, and preparing them for baptism, confirmation, and enduring to the end.
Note your study plans in your daily planner.
Plan your study by asking: What will I be teaching today?
How can I plan my study to best help those I teach?
Which ideas and suggestions from this section will I incorporate in my study?
As you plan your study activities, experiment with some of the ideas and suggestions that follow or with additional ideas you learn from others.
Apply and Live What You Learn
“Liken” what you learn to yourself (see
1 Nephi 19:23
).
Set goals to live what you are learning.
Substitute your name in a verse of scripture to personalize it.
Ask yourself, “How should I change as a result of what I have learned?” Set appropriate goals.
Activity: Personal Study
Select one of the following references.
As you read and ponder your chosen passage, identify two or three ways you can apply it in your life.
2 Nephi 31
Alma 32:26–43
Moroni 7:32–48
Evaluate how well you live the principles that you teach.
Choose one way in which you can improve, and make plans to do so.
Search, Ponder, and Remember
Be physically and mentally alert as you study.
Study at a desk or table where you can write (not lying down or sitting on your bed), and organize your study materials.
Pray and ask for understanding.
Study by topic.
Ask yourself, “What is the author saying?
What is the central message?
How does this apply to me?
How might this help a family or person we are teaching?”
Visualize what you are studying.
For example, imagine what it was like for Ammon to stand before the Lamanite king.
Study the words of the living prophets (in the Gospel Library and other approved resources).
Write in your study journal questions you have, and use the scriptures, words of latter-day prophets, and other study resources to find answers.
A single verse of scripture may contain several ideas.
Underline and mark words or phrases so that you distinguish between ideas in a single verse.
Share what you learn with other missionaries.
You can learn much by explaining a doctrine or principle to another person.
Mark your scriptures and make notes in them.
In the margins write scripture references that clarify the passages you are studying.
Memorize scripture passages that explain and support the principles you teach.
Use Study Resources
Use the study aids in the LDS edition of the scriptures (
Topical Guide
,
Bible Dictionary
, Joseph Smith Translation, index to the triple combination, chapter headings, footnotes, and maps).
Use the missionary lessons and other approved Church resources such as Gospel Library,
Gospel Topics
, and
Gospel Topics essays
.
Review chapter headings in the scriptures.
This review will give you ideas about what to look for in the chapter.
Use your study journal to record and organize what you are learning.
Frequently review the thoughts you have recorded.
Organize your journal so that you can easily recall what you have learned.
Use this manual as a workbook.
Use annotations (when using the digital version) or the space provided in the margins for notes to record impressions and ideas.
Study the scripture passages listed in this manual.
Record in this manual or your study journal other scripture passages you have found.
See the Big Picture
Get an overview, either by reading the book, chapter, or passage quickly or by reviewing headings.
Seek to understand the context and background.
Try writing the main idea of the passage in a sentence or short paragraph.
Use the Bible and Church history maps to learn geography, distances, climate, and terrain.
Review the sequence of events and the culture.
Read the historical information in the Bible Dictionary and the chapter and section summaries.
Activity: Personal Study
Read the chapter summaries of the books below and write an outline that describes the setting, main events, and main doctrine of each book.
1 Nephi
Moses
Acts
Explore the Details
Look for key words and make sure you understand what they mean.
Use the footnotes, digital resources in Gospel Library, the
Guide to the Scriptures
, the
Bible Dictionary
, or another dictionary for definitions.
Examine surrounding words or phrases for clues to what the key words mean.
Look for connecting words, such as
therefore, and again, thus, wherefore,
and others.
Then see how the preceding and following passages relate to each other.
Use the
Topical Guide
or
Guide to the Scriptures
to see how the same word is used in other contexts or how other prophets use the same word.
Look for unfamiliar words or phrases and make sure you understand them.
Marking Scriptures
Marking or annotating your scriptures can assist you in thinking deeply about a passage or doctrine of the gospel.
You can mark your scriptures in many ways.
Find a method that works for you.
Below are some guidelines for marking a printed version of the scriptures.
Use pencils or colored markers.
Avoid using pens that bleed through the paper.
Shade, underline, bracket, or outline part of a verse, an entire verse, or a group of verses.
Avoid excessive marking.
The benefit is lost if you cannot understand your markings because you have made too many notes, lines, and colors.
Underline only a few key words to highlight the verse, section, or chapter.
Circle or underline key words, and then use straight lines to link closely related words.
When a series of points in a verse or passage are related, number the points in the margin or text.
Use the footnotes as a resource for marking and interpreting the scriptures.
Place a symbol (such as a check mark) in the margin for key verses you feel are critical to remember.
Marking your scriptures should help you focus on applying what you learn and on teaching others.
Develop an approach that is consistent and helps you accomplish your purpose as a missionary.
Activity: Personal Study
Which suggestions have you not yet tried?
Identify one suggestion from “
Study Ideas and Suggestions
” to try during your next personal or companion study session.
Remember This
Pursuing the desire to learn is important to your salvation and your success as a missionary.
You learn the gospel by study, faith, and the power of the Holy Ghost.
Learning is a joy and brings many blessings.
Daily personal and companion study strengthens your faith and your ability to teach by the Spirit.
Use a variety of study methods that make the experience meaningful and enjoyable.
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Rate yourself on the following (1=never, 3=some of the time, and 5=almost always).
I think about the people I am teaching when I study.
Throughout the day I think about what I studied in the morning.
As I study, ideas come to my mind that have not occurred to me before.
I record spiritual impressions and ideas in an appropriate place.
I fall asleep as I study.
I look forward to personal study.
I look forward to companion study.
Review your responses.
What are you doing well?
Do you wish any of your responses were different?
Set one or two goals that will improve the quality of your study.
Review the “
Consider This
” questions at the beginning of this chapter.
How do these questions influence your study?
Review the “
Study Ideas and Suggestions
.” Identify one suggestion from each category that you have not used, and try these ideas during your personal study.
Read
Doctrine and Covenants 138:1–11
and answer the following questions:
What did President Smith have to do for his mind to be opened?
How did he feel about the doctrine he was thinking about?
Read the definition of
knowledge
in the Bible Dictionary and the scripture references listed.
In your study journal, write an answer to the question “What knowledge can help me serve effectively as a missionary?”
Select doctrine from chapter 3 that you would like to understand and teach.
In your study journal, write questions you would like to be able to answer.
Carefully study that doctrine for a period of time and pray specifically for increased understanding.
Write what you learn.
As you read
1 Nephi 10:17
;
11:1–6
, answer the question “Why was Nephi able to learn what his father knew?”
Companion Study
Read together the following passages.
Answer the question “Why should we seek divine light?”
Doctrine and Covenants 11:11–14
Doctrine and Covenants 84:43–47
John 8:12
Psalm 119:105
Discuss with your companion what you are learning in your personal study.
Help each other grow spiritually by learning and sharing together.
Read together several of the passages below, and discuss blessings that come from studying the word of God.
Which passages would best help those you teach?
1 Nephi 10:19
2 Nephi 32:3
Mosiah 1:6–7
Alma 17:2–3
Alma 32:42–43
Alma 37:44–46
Alma 49:30
Doctrine and Covenants 90:24
Doctrine and Covenants 130:19
TG, “
Scriptures, study of
” and “
Scriptures, value of
,” 452–53
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Select a topic from one of the missionary lessons that you have carefully studied.
Do the following:
Share two or three main points you learned from your study that have been helpful in teaching that lesson.
Describe the way you approached your study that helped you discover these points (how you studied, resources you used, questions you were researching, and so on).
Show how you recorded and organized the results of your study.
If time permits, ask a few other missionaries to do the same.
This activity may be done individually or in small groups.
Instruct the missionaries to select one of the following questions (or you may create some of your own questions).
Have them write the question down.
Why are families so important in God’s plan?
Why do people have trials and suffering?
What is the role of the Spirit in conversion?
Explain that they will have five to seven minutes to:
Find at least two scripture references that answer the question.
Write a simple interpretation of how the scriptures they chose answer the question.
Describe what they would do to remember the answer.
Describe what they would do to explore the question more deeply.
Invite a few missionaries (or each group) to share their answers.
Discuss their responses.
Ask the missionaries to write one or two questions about the gospel principles and doctrine from one of the lessons in chapter 3 for which they would like to find an answer.
Invite the missionaries to share their questions with the group.
For each question, discuss the following:
How could answering this question bless the life of the missionary?
How could it bless the lives of the people they are teaching?
How could a missionary find the answer?
Ask several missionaries to share a gospel principle that their companions have taught them.
Ask them to explain the principle and how their companion taught it to them.
Organize missionaries into companionships or small groups.
Assign each group to read one chapter from the Book of Mormon.
Have each group select one idea from each of the categories in the section “
Study Ideas and Suggestions
.” Invite group members to apply their chosen suggestion as they study their chapter together.
Allow 15 to 20 minutes for reading and discussion.
Then have each group explain the suggestions they used, how well the suggestions worked, and what they learned.
Invite each missionary to think of a story or event in the scriptures that has meaning to him or her (such as
Lehi’s vision of the tree of life
,
King Benjamin’s sermon
,
the Sermon on the Mount
, or
Christ’s appearance to the Nephites
).
Invite the missionaries to sketch or describe how they visualize the accounts they have chosen.
Invite two or three missionaries to share what they visualize.
Ask others to tell the stories and relate them to the doctrine in one of the lessons.
Read
Moroni 10:3
and discuss the value of pondering deeply about spiritual knowledge.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
From time to time, join missionaries in their companion study.
Invite missionaries to bring their study journals to interviews.
Invite them to share one entry with you.
During interviews or in conversations, ask some of the following questions:
What impressions have you had recently in your scripture study?
What is one gospel principle that your companion has recently taught you?
What chapter or section of this manual has helped you most in the past two weeks?
What are you doing in your personal study that helps you learn the most?
During zone conferences or mission leadership council, invite missionaries to share meaningful experiences they have had in their personal and companion study.
During zone conferences or mission leadership council, allow missionaries to share personal study ideas.
Share with missionaries insights you have had in your personal study.
Share entries from your study journal and your testimony of the importance of gospel study.
During interviews or in conversations, invite missionaries to share one of their lesson plans from one of the missionary lessons.
Ask them what this doctrine means to them.
Notes
3
What Do I Study and Teach?
Image
Sermon on the Mount
The Sermon on the Mount,
by Carl Bloch.
Original at the Chapel of Frederiksborg Castle, Denmark.
Used by permission of the Frederiksborgmuseum.
Do not copy.
The lessons in this chapter contain the essential doctrine, principles, and commandments that you are to study, believe, love, live, and teach.
They are what the living prophets and apostles have directed you to teach.
They are organized so that you can help others clearly understand the doctrine of Christ.
The lessons in this chapter are:
The Message of the Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
The Plan of Salvation
The Gospel of Jesus Christ
The Commandments
Laws and Ordinances
Teach all of the lessons before baptism.
Make sure those you teach qualify for baptism and confirmation by making and keeping all of the commitments in these lessons.
Each lesson contains a list of invitations for others to make and keep certain commitments.
Help those you teach understand that accepting an invitation to make and keep a commitment can prepare them to make and keep covenants with the Lord.
Full-time missionaries take the lead in teaching all of the lessons before baptism and again after baptism, with the help of ward missionaries and other members.
After baptism, encourage each new member to keep all the commitments in these lessons.
You should also use these lessons in individual and companion study, district council, and other training settings.
As you study the scriptures and treasure up in your mind the doctrine in these lessons, the Spirit will give you in the very hour what you should say and do to help others receive a witness of the truthfulness of the teachings.
As a missionary, you have a great responsibility to teach from the heart and by the Spirit.
The First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles stated: “Our purpose is to teach the message of the restored gospel in such a way as to allow the Spirit to direct
both the missionaries and those being taught.
It is essential to learn the concepts of the [lessons], but these should not be taught by rote presentation.
The missionary should feel free to use his own words as prompted by the Spirit.
He should not give a memorized recitation, but speak from the heart in his own terms.
He may depart from the order of the lessons, giving that which he is inspired to do, according to the interest and needs of the [person].
Speaking out of his own conviction and in his own words he should bear testimony of the truth of his teachings” (“Statement on Missionary Work,” First Presidency letter, Dec.
11, 2002).
As you and your companion study these lessons and prepare to teach, keep these instructions firmly in mind.
Make sure that you teach all the doctrine in these lessons.
Let the Spirit guide the order in which you present the first three lessons based on the person’s needs, interests, and situation.
A few of the commandments may also be included as appropriate or be taught as lessons of their own.
Prayerfully decide what to teach and which invitations to extend.
Be mindful of the person’s questions and level of understanding.
Each lesson outlines the baptismal interview questions, commitments, and doctrine that you are to teach.
Thoroughly learn the doctrine.
Consistently focus on helping those you teach make and keep the commitments.
Use the baptismal interview questions to prepare those you teach for baptism and confirmation.
The lessons also have ideas for teaching.
Use these suggestions to strengthen how you prepare and teach.
The Role of Memorization
Memorize scriptures to use in your teaching.
Commit to memory the sequence of the doctrinal points in each of the missionary lessons.
Missionaries learning a second language should focus their language study on preparing to teach the missionary lessons.
They should memorize vocabulary, phrases, sentence patterns, and brief statements of doctrine as they appear in the lesson, but only after these have become personally meaningful.
Do not memorize entire lessons.
Teach with Clarity
At the end of the first three lessons is a list of words that may be unfamiliar to those you teach.
Learn how to define these words simply.
As you teach, do all you can to make the message easy to understand.
Scripture Study
What are you directed to teach?
Mosiah 18:18–20
Doctrine and Covenants 43:15–16
Doctrine and Covenants 52:9
Why must you study the doctrine in the lessons?
Alma 17:2–3
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85
Notes
Lesson 1
The Message of the Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
Image
The Sacred Grove
© 1991 Greg K.
Olsen.
Do not copy.
Your Purpose
As you teach, help people prepare for baptism and confirmation.
Consider the qualifications for baptism taught in
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
and in the related
baptismal interview questions
.
Prayerfully decide what to teach and which invitations to extend based on the person’s needs, interests, and situation.
Be mindful of the questions and level of understanding of those you teach.
Baptismal Interview Questions
Do you believe that God is our Eternal Father?
Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Savior and Redeemer of the world?
Do you believe that the Church and the gospel of Jesus Christ have been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith?
Do you believe that [current Church President] is a prophet of God?
What does this mean to you?
Invitations
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you ask God in prayer to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
God Is Our Loving Heavenly Father
God is our Heavenly Father.
We are His children.
He has a body of flesh and bone that is glorified and perfected.
He loves us.
He understands and feels our sorrows and rejoices in our progress.
He wants to communicate with us, and we can communicate with Him through sincere prayer.
He has given us this experience on the earth so we can learn and grow.
We can show our love for Him through our choices and our obedience to His commandments.
Heavenly Father has provided us, His children, with a way to be successful in this life and to return to live in His presence.
However, we must be pure and clean through obedience in order to do so.
Disobedience moves us away from Him.
Central to our Father’s plan is Jesus Christ’s Atonement.
Jesus Christ’s Atonement included His suffering in the Garden of Gethsemane as well as His suffering and death on the cross.
Through Christ’s Atonement we can be freed from the burden of our sins and develop faith and strength to face our trials.
Belief about God
Determine what each person you are teaching understands regarding Christian beliefs about God.
Many people in today’s world either have no concept of God or have a very different perception of Deity.
Two Book of Mormon missionaries, Ammon and Aaron, taught people who did not have a Christian background.
They taught simple truths and invited the people to pray.
Lamoni and his father were converted.
Read
Alma 18:24–40
and
22:4–23
, and answer the questions below:
What did these missionaries teach about the nature of God?
How can you follow their examples?
Scripture Study
What is the nature of God the Father and Jesus Christ?
1 Nephi 17:36
2 Nephi 9:6
Mosiah 4:9
3 Nephi 12:48
3 Nephi 14:9–11
3 Nephi 27:13–22
Doctrine and Covenants 38:1–3
Doctrine and Covenants 130:22
Moses 1:39
Matthew 5:48
John 3:16–17
Acts 17:27–29
Romans 8:16
Hebrews 12:9
1 John 4:7–9
The Gospel Blesses Individuals and Families
The restored gospel of Jesus Christ blesses individuals and families.
It helps husbands and wives, parents and children as they strive to develop stronger relationships and spiritual strength in their families.
These blessings are available now and in eternity.
The gospel of Jesus Christ provides help with current concerns and challenges.
The message of the gospel of Jesus Christ is that all individuals are part of God’s family and that families can be united now and in eternity.
Because families are ordained of God, they are the most important social unit in time and in eternity.
God has established families to bring happiness to His children, allow them to learn correct principles in a loving atmosphere, and prepare them for eternal life.
The home is the best place to teach, learn, and apply principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
A home established on gospel principles will be a place of refuge and safety.
It will be a place where the Spirit of the Lord can abide, blessing family members with peace, joy, and happiness.
Through prophets in every age, including our own, God has revealed His plan of happiness for individuals and families.
Heavenly Father Reveals His Gospel in Every Dispensation
One important way that God shows His love for us is by calling prophets, who are given the priesthood—the power and authority given to man to act in God’s name for the salvation of His children.
Prophets learn the gospel of Jesus Christ by revelation.
They in
turn teach the gospel to others and testify of Jesus Christ as the Savior and Redeemer.
The teachings of prophets are found in sacred books called scriptures.
Our Father’s plan for us to be successful in this life and to return to live with Him is called the gospel of Jesus Christ, with Jesus’s Atonement at the center of that plan.
Through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, we can receive eternal life if we exercise faith in Jesus Christ, repent, are baptized by immersion for the remission of sins, receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and endure to the end. “This is the way; and there is none other way nor name given under heaven whereby man can be saved in the kingdom of God.
And now, behold, this is the doctrine of Christ” (
2 Nephi 31:21
).
All people have the gift of agency, which includes the freedom to accept or reject the gospel as taught by the prophets and apostles.
Those who choose to obey are blessed, but those who ignore, reject, or distort the gospel do not receive God’s promised blessings.
Whenever people choose to disregard, disobey, or distort any gospel principle or ordinance, whenever they reject the Lord’s prophets, or whenever they fail to endure in faith, they distance themselves from God and begin to live in spiritual darkness.
Eventually this leads to a condition called apostasy.
When widespread apostasy occurs, God withdraws His priesthood authority to teach and administer the ordinances of the gospel.
Image
Noah preaching
Biblical history has recorded many instances of God speaking to prophets, and it also tells of many instances of apostasy.
To end each period of general apostasy, God has shown His love for His children by calling another prophet and giving him priesthood authority to restore and teach the gospel of Jesus Christ anew.
In essence, the prophet acts as a steward to oversee the household of God here on earth.
Such periods of time headed by prophetic responsibility are called dispensations.
God revealed the gospel of Jesus Christ to Adam and gave him priesthood authority.
Adam was the first prophet on the earth.
By revelation, Adam learned of mankind’s proper relationship with God the Father, His Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost; of the Atonement and Resurrection of Jesus Christ; and of the first principles and ordinances of the gospel.
Adam and Eve taught their children these truths and encouraged them to develop faith and to live the gospel in all aspects of their lives.
Adam was followed by other prophets, but over time the posterity of Adam rejected the gospel and fell into apostasy, choosing to be unrighteous.
Thus began the pattern of prophetic dispensations that makes up much of the recorded history of the Old Testament.
Heavenly Father revealed His gospel through direct communication to prophets such as Noah, Abraham, and Moses.
Each prophet was called by God to begin a new dispensation of the gospel.
To each of these prophets God granted priesthood authority and revealed eternal truths.
Unfortunately, in each dispensation people eventually used their agency to choose to reject the gospel and then fell into apostasy.
Prophets
Determine what the person you are teaching understands about prophets.
In most cultures there are people who believe that holy or inspired people receive some form of guidance and direction from Deity.
However, not all inspired individuals are prophets of God as defined in the restored gospel.
Explain clearly that God establishes His kingdom on the earth by calling a prophet to establish a new dispensation.
He gives that prophet priesthood authority.
The prophet then helps people understand their relationship to Deity, including how to receive eternal life through the gospel of Jesus Christ.
You might wonder how gospel dispensations are relevant when teaching people who do not have a Christian background or culture.
But you will find that by briefly relating the history of gospel dispensations, you can help people understand that God loves His children and that He is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
Scripture Study
Prophets
Jacob 4:4, 6
Mosiah 8:13–18
Acts 10:34–43
Amos 3:7
Dispensations
Doctrine and Covenants 136:36–38
Moses 5:4–12, 55–59
Moses 8:19–30
Bible Dictionary,
“Dispensations”
The Savior’s Earthly Ministry and Atonement
A few hundred years before the birth of Jesus Christ, people again fell into apostasy.
But when the Savior began His mortal ministry He established His Church again on the earth.
Heavenly Father sent His Son to the earth to atone for the sins of all mankind and overcome death: “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son … that the world through him might be saved” (
John 3:16–17
).
Our Heavenly Father sent His Son, Jesus Christ, to take upon Him, by His suffering, the sins of all who would live on this earth and to overcome physical death.
The Savior made an infinite atoning sacrifice so that if we have faith in Him, repent, are baptized, receive the Holy Ghost, and endure to the end, we can receive forgiveness of our sins and enter and follow the path that will lead us to eternal life in God’s presence (see
2 Nephi 31:13–21
).
Image
Christ Ordaining the Twelve Apostles
During His earthly ministry, the Savior taught His gospel and performed many miracles.
He called twelve men to be His Apostles and laid His hands on their heads to give them priesthood authority.
He organized His Church, fulfilled prophecy, and was rejected and crucified.
Most important, He completed the Atonement.
The Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, completed all that His Heavenly Father sent Him to do.
Before the Savior’s death and Resurrection, He gave His Apostles authority to teach His gospel, perform the ordinances of salvation, and establish His Church in the world.
Scripture Study
Articles of Faith 1:5
Matthew 10:1–10
Luke 6:13
John 15:16
Hebrews 5:4
The Great Apostasy
After the death of Jesus Christ, wicked people persecuted the Apostles and Church members and killed many of them.
With the death of the Apostles, priesthood keys and the presiding priesthood authority were taken from the earth.
The Apostles had kept the doctrine of the gospel pure and maintained the order and standard of worthiness for Church members.
Without the Apostles, over time the doctrine was corrupted, and unauthorized changes were made in Church organization and priesthood ordinances, such as baptism and conferring the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Without revelation and priesthood authority, people relied on human wisdom to interpret the scriptures and the principles and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
False ideas were taught as truth.
Much of the knowledge of the true character and nature of God the Father, His Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost was lost.
Important parts of the doctrine of faith in Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost became distorted or forgotten.
The priesthood authority given to Christ’s Apostles was no longer present on the earth.
This apostasy eventually led to the emergence of many churches.
After centuries of spiritual darkness, truth-seeking men and women protested against current religious practices.
They recognized that much of the doctrine and many of the ordinances of the gospel had been changed or lost.
They sought for greater spiritual light, and many spoke of the need for a restoration of truth.
None of these people claimed, however, that God had called them to be a prophet.
Instead, they tried to reform teachings and practices that they believed had been changed or corrupted.
Their efforts led to the organization of many Protestant churches.
This Reformation resulted in an increased emphasis on religious freedom, which opened the way for the final Restoration.
The Savior’s Apostles foretold this universal apostasy.
They also foretold that the gospel of Jesus Christ and His Church would be restored once more upon the earth.
Scripture Study
1 Nephi 13
2 Nephi 26:20–21
2 Nephi 28
4 Nephi 1:27
Doctrine and Covenants 86:1–3
Matthew 24:9–11
Mark 12:1–9
Acts 3:19–21
Acts 20:28–30
Galatians 1:6–9
2 Thessalonians 2:1–12
(JST
verses 2
,
3
,
7–9
)
1 Timothy 4:1–3
2 Timothy 4:3–4
2 Peter 2:1–2
Amos 8:11–12
Topical Guide,
“Apostasy of the Early Christian Church”
The Great Apostasy
As you teach, help people understand that a universal apostasy occurred following the death of Jesus Christ and His Apostles.
If there had been no apostasy, there would have been no need of a Restoration.
As a diamond displayed on black velvet appears more brilliant, so the Restoration stands in striking contrast to the dark background of the Great Apostasy.
As guided by the Spirit, teach people about the Great Apostasy at a level of detail appropriate to their needs and circumstances.
Your purpose is to help them understand the need for the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Key Points
The Church of Jesus Christ is built on the foundation of apostles and prophets (see
Ephesians 2:19–20
;
4:11–14
).
These leaders have divine priesthood authority.
Through revelation they direct the affairs of the Church.
They maintain doctrinal purity, authorize the administration of ordinances, and call and confer the priesthood authority upon others.
People rejected and killed Jesus Christ and the Apostles (see
Matthew 24:9
;
1 Nephi 11:32–34
;
2 Nephi 27:5
).
With the death of the Apostles, the presiding priesthood authority was absent from the Church.
Consequently, there was no longer authority to confer the Holy Ghost or perform other saving ordinances.
Revelation ceased, and doctrine became corrupted.
Even before the death of the Apostles, many conflicts concerning doctrine arose.
The Roman Empire, which at first had persecuted the Christians, later adopted Christianity.
Important religious questions were settled by councils.
The simple doctrine and ordinances taught by the Savior were debated and changed to conform to worldly philosophies (see
Isaiah 24:5
).
They physically changed the scriptures, removing plain and precious doctrine from them (see
1 Nephi 13:26–40
).
They created creeds, or statements of belief, based on false and changed doctrine (see
Joseph Smith—History 1:19
).
Because of pride, some aspired to positions of influence (see
3 John 1:9–10
).
People accepted these false ideas and gave honor to false teachers who taught pleasing doctrines rather than divine truth (see
2 Timothy 4:3–4
).
Throughout history, many people have sincerely believed false creeds and doctrines.
They have worshipped according to the light they possessed and have received answers to their prayers.
Yet they are “kept from the truth because they know not where to find it” (
Doctrine and Covenants 123:12
).
Therefore, a restoration, not a reformation, was required.
Priesthood authority did not continue in an unbroken line of succession from the Apostle Peter.
To reform is to change what already exists; to restore is to bring back something in its original form.
Thus, restoration of priesthood authority through divine messengers was the only possible way to overcome the Great Apostasy.
The Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ through Joseph Smith
When the circumstances were right, Heavenly Father once again reached out to His children in love.
He called a young man named Joseph Smith as a prophet.
Through him the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth.
Joseph Smith lived in the United States, which was perhaps the only country to enjoy religious freedom at the time.
It was at a time of great religious excitement in the eastern United States.
His family members were deeply religious and constantly sought for truth.
But many ministers claimed to have the true gospel.
Joseph desired “to know which of all the sects was right” (
Joseph Smith—History 1:18
).
The Bible taught there was “one Lord, one faith, one baptism” (
Ephesians 4:5
).
Joseph attended different churches, but he remained confused about which church he should join.
He later wrote:
“So great were the confusion and strife among the different denominations, that it was impossible for a person young as I was … to come to any certain conclusion who was right and who was wrong. … In the midst of this war of words and tumult of opinions, I often said to myself: What is to be done?
Who of all these parties are right; or, are they all wrong together?
If any one of them be right, which is it, and how shall I know it?” (
Joseph Smith—History 1:8, 10
).
As Joseph sought truth among the different faiths, he turned to the Bible for guidance.
He read, “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him” (
James 1:5
).
Because of this passage, Joseph decided to ask God what he should do.
In the spring of 1820 he went to a nearby grove of trees and knelt in prayer.
We have four different accounts of what followed, recorded by him or scribes under his direction (see Gospel Topics essay, “
First Vision Accounts
”).
In one account, he described his experience:
“I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me. … When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air.
One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—
This is My Beloved Son.
Hear Him!
” (
Joseph Smith—History 1:16–17
).
Image
First Vision
In this vision God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to Joseph Smith.
The Savior told Joseph not to join any of the churches, for they “were all wrong” and “all their creeds were an abomination.” He stated, “They draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me, they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof” (
Joseph Smith—History 1:19
).
Even though many good people believed in Christ and tried to understand and teach His gospel, they did not have the fulness of truth or the priesthood authority to baptize and perform other saving ordinances.
They had inherited a state of apostasy as each generation was influenced by what the previous one passed on, including changes in the doctrine and in ordinances such as baptism.
As God had done with Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, and other prophets, He called Joseph Smith to be a prophet through whom the fulness of the gospel was restored to the earth.
After the appearance of the Father and the Son, other heavenly messengers, or angels, were sent to Joseph Smith and his associate Oliver Cowdery.
John the Baptist appeared and conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the Aaronic Priesthood, which includes the authority to perform the ordinance of baptism.
Peter, James, and John (three of Christ’s original Apostles) appeared and conferred the Melchizedek Priesthood upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, restoring the same authority given to Christ’s Apostles anciently.
With this priesthood authority, Joseph Smith was directed to organize the Church of Jesus Christ again on the earth.
Through him, Jesus Christ called twelve Apostles.
The time in which we live is referred to by Bible prophets as the last days, the latter days, or the dispensation of the fulness of times.
It is the period of time just before the Second Coming of Jesus Christ.
It is the final dispensation.
This is why the Church is named The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
A living prophet directs the Church today.
This prophet, the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is the authorized successor to Joseph Smith.
He and the present Apostles trace their authority to Jesus Christ in an unbroken chain of ordinations through Joseph Smith.
Memorize
Joseph Smith—History 1:16–17
Memorize Joseph Smith’s description of seeing the Father and the Son (
Joseph Smith—History 1:16–17
), and always be ready to describe the First Vision using his own words.
Bear sincere testimony that you know it is true.
Do not hesitate to explain how you came to know of its truth.
Invite your companion to do so as well.
Bear Testimony
An important part of a missionary’s duty is to bear testimony of the current prophet and President of the Church.
Scripture Study
2 Nephi 3
Doctrine and Covenants 112:30
Ephesians 1:10
Ephesians 4:5
James 1:5
The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ
Knowing that doubt, disbelief, and misinformation would remain after centuries of darkness, our loving Heavenly Father brought forth an ancient volume of holy scripture comparable to the Bible, which contains the fulness of the everlasting gospel of Jesus Christ.
This volume of holy scripture provides convincing evidence that Joseph Smith is a true prophet of God.
This record is the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ.
Joseph Smith was directed by a heavenly messenger named Moroni to a hill where golden plates had lain hidden for centuries.
These golden plates contained the writings of prophets giving an account of God’s dealings with some of the ancient inhabitants of the Americas.
Joseph Smith translated the contents of these plates by the power of God.
The prophets in the Book of Mormon knew about the mission of the Savior and taught His gospel.
After His Resurrection, Christ appeared to these people.
He taught them His gospel and established His Church.
The Book of Mormon proves that “God does inspire men and call them to his holy work in this age and generation, as well as in generations of old” (
Doctrine and Covenants 20:11
).
In order to know that the Book of Mormon is true, a person must read it and ponder and pray about it.
The honest seeker of truth will soon come to feel that the Book of Mormon is the word of God.
Reading, pondering, and praying about the Book of Mormon are critical for an enduring conversion.
Those who begin reading the Book of Mormon for the first time take important steps toward coming to know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God and that the true Church has been restored to the earth.
Use the Book of Mormon to Confirm the Truth of the Restoration
Following is an example of what you might say when introducing the Book of Mormon:
“God loves His children, so He provided a convincing way to confirm the truth of what we have said.
It is the Book of Mormon.
Would you please read the last two paragraphs in the introduction to the book?”
Carefully explain the meaning of each concept in both paragraphs and invite those you teach to read portions of the Book of Mormon and to apply the principles described in these two paragraphs.
When introducing a person to the Book of Mormon, it is helpful to show him or her a copy, briefly review the contents, and share one or two passages that are personally meaningful to you or that might be meaningful to him or her.
Scripture Study
Title page of the Book of Mormon
Introduction to the Book of Mormon, paragraphs 1–7
Doctrine and Covenants 1:17–23
Doctrine and Covenants 20:5–12
Joseph Smith—History 1:27–64
Pray to Know the Truth through the Holy Ghost
Prayer
Address our Heavenly Father (“Our Father in Heaven, …”).
Express the feelings of your heart (gratitude, questions, requests to confirm that the Book of Mormon is true, and so on).
Close (“In the name of Jesus Christ, amen”).
This message of the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ is either true or it is not.
We can know that it is true by the power of the Holy Ghost, as promised in
Moroni 10:3–5
.
Consistent study of the scriptures (particularly the Book of Mormon), regular church attendance, and sincere prayer help us feel the power of the Holy Ghost and discover truth.
After reading and pondering the message of the Book of Mormon, any who desire to know the truth must ask our Heavenly Father in prayer in the name of Jesus Christ if it is true.
Because God is our Father and we are His children, He will help us recognize truth.
When we pray with faith, sincerity, and real intent—a commitment to act on the answers we receive—God will answer our questions, guide our lives, and help us make good decisions.
When we pray, we address our Heavenly Father.
We thank Him for our blessings and ask to know that the message of the Book of Mormon is true.
No one can know of spiritual truths without prayer.
In answer to our prayers, the Holy Ghost will teach us truth through our feelings and thoughts.
Feelings that come from the Holy Ghost are powerful, but they are also usually gentle and quiet.
As we begin to feel that what we are learning is true, we will desire to know all that we can about the Restoration.
Knowing that the Book of Mormon is true leads to a knowledge that Joseph Smith was called as a prophet and that the gospel of Jesus Christ was restored through him.
Prayer
Although prayer has a role in many religions and cultures, it is rarely considered to be a two-way communication between God and man.
Help those you teach understand that they can speak the feelings of their hearts in prayer.
Demonstrate this in the way you pray when beginning or ending a lesson.
Use simple language that they can also use when they pray.
Help them understand that our Heavenly Father will answer their prayers, typically through the feelings of their hearts and thoughts in their minds.
If they are sincere and really want to know whether God is there, He will answer them.
Invite the head of the household to offer a kneeling prayer at the end of the lesson.
Scripture Study
Alma 5:45–46
Doctrine and Covenants 8:2–3
John 14:26
Introduction to the Book of Mormon, paragraphs 8–9
Invitation to Be Baptized
As directed by the Spirit, during this or any other lesson, do not hesitate to invite people to be baptized and confirmed.
To prepare people for an invitation to be baptized and confirmed, teach the doctrine of baptism and testify often of the importance of all people being baptized by authority, of receiving a remission of sins, and of the wonderful gift of the Holy Ghost.
You might say, “As the Lord answers your prayers and you feel that this message is true, will you follow the example of Jesus Christ by being baptized?”
The invitation to be baptized and confirmed should be specific and direct: “Will you follow the example of Jesus Christ by being baptized by someone holding the priesthood authority of God?
We will be holding a baptismal service on (date).
Will you prepare yourself to be baptized on that date?”
Ideas for Teaching
This section has ideas for you to use in preparing for and teaching the information in this lesson.
Pray for the Spirit’s guidance as you decide how to use these ideas.
Add the ideas you select to your lesson plan.
Keep in mind that these ideas are suggestions—not requirements—to help you meet the needs of those you teach.
Short Lesson Plan (3–5 minutes)
After centuries of being lost to the world, the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to the earth by our loving Heavenly Father through a living prophet.
The Book of Mormon is evidence of this.
You can hold it in your hands.
You can read it, ponder how the message in the book can improve your life, and pray to know that the message is the word of God.
God Is Our Loving Heavenly Father
The Gospel Blesses Individuals and Families
Heavenly Father Reveals His Gospel in Every Dispensation
The Savior’s Earthly Ministry and Atonement
The Great Apostasy
The Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ through Joseph Smith
The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ
Pray to Know the Truth through the Holy Ghost
Invitations
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you ask God in prayer to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
Medium Lesson Plan (10–15 minutes)
Our message is remarkable and simple.
God is our Father.
We are His children.
We are part of His family.
He loves us.
From the beginning of the world, He has followed a pattern of love and concern.
Many times He has reached out in love to reveal the gospel of Jesus Christ so that His children can know how to return to Him.
He revealed it to prophets such as Adam, Noah, Abraham, and Moses.
But people have repeatedly chosen to reject that gospel.
Two thousand years ago, Jesus Christ Himself taught His gospel and established His Church, and accomplished the Atonement.
Incredibly, people even rejected Jesus.
Whenever people disregard or distort true doctrine and ordinances, God withdraws His authority to administer the Church.
Our invitation to you and all people is to add to the truths you already treasure.
Consider our evidence that our Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, have again reached out to God’s children in love and revealed the fulness of the gospel to a prophet.
This prophet’s name is Joseph Smith.
The evidence of this glorious truth is found in a book—the
Book of Mormon—which you can read, ponder, and pray about.
If you pray with a sincere heart, with real intent and faith in Christ, God will tell you by the power of the Holy Ghost that it is true.
Invitations
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you ask God in prayer to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
Full Lesson Plan (30–45 minutes)
God Is Our Loving Heavenly Father
We are God’s children (see
Acts 17:29
).
God loves us and will help us make right choices.
Through Jesus Christ, we can live with God again (see
John 3:16–17
).
The Gospel Blesses Individuals and Families
The gospel of Jesus Christ blesses individuals and helps families develop stronger relationships.
Families are ordained of God; they are the most important social unit in time and eternity (see
Doctrine and Covenants 49:15–16
).
The family is the best place to teach, learn, and apply gospel principles (see
Doctrine and Covenants 68:25
;
Genesis 18:19
;
Deuteronomy 6:7
).
The family can be a place of safety, peace, and joy.
Heavenly Father Reveals His Gospel in Every Dispensation
God calls prophets to teach His gospel (see
Amos 3:7
).
Apostasy means to reject prophets and the gospel.
Dispensations are periods of time when prophets have taught the gospel.
Previous dispensations have ended in apostasy (see
Doctrine and Covenants 136:36–38
).
Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, and other ancient prophets all taught the gospel (see
Moses 5:4–12
).
The Savior’s Earthly Ministry and Atonement
The Son of God restored and taught the gospel.
He performed many miracles (see Bible Dictionary,
“Miracles”
).
He called Apostles and gave them priesthood authority to preach the gospel and perform saving ordinances such as baptism (see
John 15:16
).
Christ established His Church.
Christ was crucified, and His Apostles were rejected and killed (see
Matthew 27:35
;
Mark 15:25
).
Christ accomplished the Atonement (see Bible Dictionary, “
Atonement
”).
The Great Apostasy
Without revelation through a prophet, people fall into spiritual darkness (see
Amos 8:11–12
).
Prophets and apostles foretold the Great Apostasy (see
2 Thessalonians 2:1–3
).
The Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ through Joseph Smith
Joseph sought for truth (see
Joseph Smith—History 1:8, 10
).
God and Jesus Christ appeared to Joseph Smith (see
Joseph Smith—History 1:16–17
).
Like prophets in earlier dispensations, Joseph Smith was called as the prophet of this last dispensation.
God restored the fulness of the gospel through Joseph Smith (see
Doctrine and Covenants 35:17
;
135:3
).
Other heavenly messengers restored the priesthood, and Christ’s Church was organized (see
Doctrine and Covenants 13
;
27:12
).
A living prophet directs the Church today.
The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ
The Book of Mormon is convincing evidence that Joseph Smith was a prophet.
Joseph translated the plates by the power of God (see
introduction to the Book of Mormon, paragraph 5
).
The Book of Mormon proves that God inspires prophets in our day as He has in every dispensation (see
Doctrine and Covenants 20:5–12
).
The Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ (see
Doctrine and Covenants 20:8–9
).
Pray to Know the Truth through the Holy Ghost
You can know that the Book of Mormon is true (see
Moroni 10:3–5
;
introduction to the Book of Mormon, paragraphs 1, 8–9
).
The Holy Ghost will teach you through your thoughts and feelings (see
Doctrine and Covenants 8:2–3
).
Invitations
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you ask God in prayer to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
Questions to Ask after You Teach
What questions do you have about what we have taught?
If there were a prophet on the earth today, what would you ask him?
Do you feel like God hears your prayers?
Why?
Would you like to find out that the Book of Mormon is true?
Why?
Key Definitions
Agency:
The ability and privilege God gives people to choose and to act for themselves.
Apostasy:
A turning away from the truth by individuals, the Church, or entire nations.
It includes rebellion against authority and rejection of prophets.
Evidence of apostasy includes transgressing God’s laws, changing gospel ordinances, and breaking covenants (see
Isaiah 24:5
).
Dispensation:
A period of time in which the Lord has at least one authorized servant on the earth who bears the keys of the holy priesthood.
In addition to Jesus Christ, prophets such as Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Moses, and Joseph Smith have each started a new gospel dispensation.
When the Lord organizes a dispensation, the gospel is revealed anew so that the people of that dispensation do not have to depend on past dispensations for knowledge of the plan of salvation.
The dispensation begun by Joseph Smith is known as the “dispensation of the fulness of times.”
Priesthood:
The authority and power that God gives to man to act in the name of Jesus Christ in all things for the salvation of mankind.
Prophet:
A man who has been called by and speaks for God.
As a messenger of God, a prophet receives priesthood authority, commandments, prophecies, and revelations from God.
His responsibility is to make known God’s will and true character to mankind and to show the meaning of His dealings with them.
A prophet denounces sin and foretells its consequences.
He is a preacher of righteousness.
On occasion, a prophet may be inspired to foretell the future for the benefit of mankind.
His primary responsibility, however, is to bear witness of Christ.
Redeemer:
Jesus Christ is the great Redeemer of mankind because He, through His Atonement, paid the price for the sins of mankind and made possible the Resurrection of all people.
To redeem is to deliver, to purchase, or to ransom, such as to free a person from bondage by payment.
Redemption refers to the Atonement of Jesus Christ and to deliverance from sin.
Jesus’s Atonement redeems all mankind from physical death.
Through His Atonement, which includes His suffering in Gethsemane and on the cross as well as His Resurrection, those who have faith in Him and who repent are redeemed from spiritual death.
Reformer:
To reform is to make changes to something in order to improve it.
The term
reformers
refers to those men and women (such as
Martin Luther
,
William Tyndale
, and
John Wycliffe
) who protested the practices of the existing church, which they felt needed to be reformed.
Restoration:
To restore means to return to a former condition, or to bring back.
The Restoration, as used by Latter-day Saints, means that the true Church of Jesus Christ, which was lost through apostasy, was brought back as it originally existed when organized by Jesus Christ.
Unlike the Reformation, the Restoration was accomplished by divine authority through revelation.
Revelation:
Communication from God to His children on earth.
Revelation may come through the Light of Christ and the Holy Ghost by way of inspiration, visions, dreams, or visits by angels.
Revelation provides guidance that can lead the faithful to eternal salvation in the celestial kingdom.
The Lord reveals His work to His prophets and confirms to believers that the revelations to the prophets are true (see
Amos 3:7
).
Through revelation, the Lord provides individual guidance for every person who seeks it and who has faith, repents, and is obedient to the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Other Terms That May Need to Be Explained to Those You Teach
Apostle
Atonement of Jesus Christ
Bible
Endure to the end
Gift of the Holy Ghost
Gospel
Obedience and disobedience to commandments
Ordinances of salvation
Prayer
Repentance
Resurrection
Return to live in His presence
Salvation
Savior
Scriptures
Sin
Stewardship
Examples of Reformers and World Religious Leaders
The following is background information to be used only when needed.
John Wycliffe:
Born in the 14th century in England.
Theology scholar at Oxford University.
Taught that the Roman Catholic Church did not have priesthood keys, that the Holy Eucharist (or sacrament) was not the actual body of Christ, and that the church should not exercise political power over the people.
Translated the Bible into English.
Died 31 December 1384.
Martin Luther:
Born 10 November 1483 in Germany.
Studied at University of Erfurt and Wittenberg.
Nailed 95 theses to the door of the Castle Church in defiance of many current teachings of the Roman Catholic Church, including the practice of having people pay money to be forgiven of their sins.
He was the founder of Lutheranism.
Died 18 February 1546.
William Tyndale:
Born in Gloucestershire County, England, in 1494.
Studied at Oxford and Cambridge.
Translated the New Testament into English.
Made the scriptures available to the common people to expose the false doctrine and corruption of religious leaders.
He was executed on 6 October 1536.
John Knox:
Born around 1513.
Scottish minister, theologian, writer, and leader of the country’s Reformation.
Known as the founder of the Presbyterian Church of Scotland.
Died on 24 November 1572.
Just as the Western Christian world was blessed by the courage and vision of the reformers, many other nations and cultures have been blessed by those who were given that portion of light and truth “that [God] seeth fit that they should have” (
Alma 29:8
).
Teachings of other world religious leaders have helped many people become more civil and ethical.
Buddha (Gotama):
Born in 563
B.C.
of a Hindu chieftain in Nepal.
Concerned with the suffering he saw around him.
Fled from his father’s luxurious palace, renounced the world, and lived in poverty.
Seeking enlightenment, he discovered what he called the “path of deliverance” and Nirvana, liberation from a cycle of painful or less meaningful existence.
Became a teacher for a community of monks.
Confucius:
Born in 551
B.C.
Orphaned as a child.
China’s first professional teacher and greatest moral and social thinker.
Championed kindness, the good and true, and respect for ancestors and family.
Mohammed:
Born in 570
A.D.
in Mecca.
Orphaned in childhood.
Married at age 25.
In 610 prayed and meditated on Mount Hira.
Said the angel Gabriel appeared to him and delivered communications from Allah (God) from 610 to his death in 632.
These communications, which he recited to his disciples, were later written in the Koran, or Qur’an, the sacred book of Islam.
General Muslim practices include faith, prayer, giving to the poor and needy, fasting, and holy pilgrimage.
Moses ben Maimonides (Rambam):
Born on Passover Eve in 1135 or 1138, he was a Jewish rabbi, physician, and philosopher.
Maimonides was one of the most prolific and influential Torah scholars of the Middle Ages.
He is also known for his influence on some of the most influential Christian writers, such as Saint Thomas Aquinas.
He died on 12 December 1204.
St.
Francis of Assisi:
Born in 1181 or 1182, he was a Roman Catholic friar, deacon, and preacher who founded several religious orders, including one that still takes care of many Christian sacred sites in the Holy Land.
St.
Francis is one of the most admired religious figures in history.
He believed that nature itself was the mirror of God and called all creatures his “brothers” and “sisters.” One of his poems is the basis of a popular hymn, “All Creatures of Our God and King.” He died on 3 October 1226.
Lesson 2
The Plan of Salvation
Image
Christus
Your Purpose
As you teach, help people prepare for baptism and confirmation.
Consider the qualifications for baptism taught in
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
and in the related baptismal interview questions.
Prayerfully decide what to teach and which invitations to extend based on the person’s needs, interests, and situation.
Be mindful of the questions and level of understanding of those you teach.
Baptismal Interview Questions
Do you believe that God is our Eternal Father?
Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Savior and Redeemer of the world?
Are you willing to keep the Sabbath day holy, including partaking of the sacrament weekly and rendering service to others?
Invitations
Will you ask God in prayer to know that what we have taught is true?
Will you repent of your sins?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you follow the example of the Savior and be baptized on (date)?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
Helping Others Learn about Jesus Christ
Missionaries are to testify of Jesus Christ and invite all to come unto Him that they might be saved and receive increased happiness, comfort, joy, and peace in this life.
Providing specific instruction about the Savior is important for those who know little or nothing about Him.
The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ is designed to help all people know that “Jesus is the Christ, … manifesting himself unto all nations” (
title page of the Book of Mormon
).
One of the most effective ways to teach and testify of the Savior is to read together from the Book of Mormon.
Passages from other standard works can also be helpful.
Consider the suggestions listed below.
This activity may also be done as part of this or other lessons or as a lesson of its own.
When helpful, repeat this activity several times before and after baptism and confirmation.
Title page
and
introduction
Make clear the purpose of the book.
1 Nephi 10–11
Lehi and Nephi testify of the Savior.
1 Nephi 19
Nephi recounts prophecies of the Savior’s ministry and Atonement.
2 Nephi 2
Lehi testifies of the Savior as Redeemer.
2 Nephi 9
Jacob testifies of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
2 Nephi 31–33
Nephi teaches the doctrine of Christ.
Enos
Enos experiences the power of the Savior’s Atonement.
Mosiah 2–5
King Benjamin teaches of Christ.
Mosiah 12–16
Abinadi gives his life in testifying of Jesus Christ.
Alma 5, 7
Alma testifies of the Savior.
Alma 17–22
Lamanites receive the testimony of Jesus Christ.
Alma 34
Amulek testifies of the Savior’s Atonement.
Alma 36
Alma experiences the power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
Alma 40–42
Alma testifies of the Resurrection and Atonement of Jesus Christ.
Helaman 5
Nephi and Lehi are instruments in God’s hands to witness of the Savior.
3 Nephi 9–10
The Savior invites people to come to Him.
3 Nephi 11–18
The Savior teaches the Nephites of the Father and of His doctrine.
3 Nephi 27
The Savior teaches His gospel.
Ether 3
The brother of Jared sees the Savior.
Ether 12
Ether and Moroni testify of the Savior and the power of His Atonement.
Moroni 7–8
Mormon teaches of the pure love of Christ and His Atonement.
Moroni 10
Moroni invites all to come unto Christ and be perfected in Him.
“
The Living Christ
”
Prophets and apostles testify of the Savior.
Premortal Life: God’s Purpose and Plan for Us
Many people wonder, “Where did we come from?
Why are we here?
Where are we going?” The plan of salvation gives us the answers to these questions.
God is the Father of our spirits.
We are literally His children, and He loves us.
We lived as spirit children of our Father in Heaven before we were born on this earth.
We were not, however, like our Heavenly Father, nor could we ever become like Him and enjoy all the blessings that He enjoys without the experience of living in mortality with a physical body.
God’s whole purpose—His work and His glory—is to enable each of us to enjoy all His blessings.
He has provided a perfect plan to accomplish His purpose.
We understood and accepted this plan before we came to the earth.
In the scriptures God’s plan is called a merciful plan, the plan of happiness, the plan of redemption, and the plan of salvation.
Jesus Christ is central to God’s plan.
Through His Atonement, Jesus Christ fulfilled His Father’s purpose and made it possible for each of us to enjoy immortality and exaltation.
Satan, or the devil, is an enemy to God’s plan.
Agency, or the ability to choose, is one of God’s greatest gifts to His children.
Our eternal progression depends on how we use this gift.
We must choose whether to follow Jesus Christ or follow Satan.
We are physically separated from God during life on earth, but He wants every one of His children to find peace in this life and a fulness of joy in His presence after this life.
He wants us to become like Him.
Scripture Study
Children of God
Doctrine and Covenants 93:29
Acts 17:29
Hebrews 12:9
God’s Purpose
Moses 1:39
John 17:3
Premortal Life
Doctrine and Covenants 138:53–56
Moses 3:5
Abraham 3:22–26
Jeremiah 1:5
Topical Guide, “
Man, Antemortal Existence of
”
The Creation
Under the direction of the Father, Jesus Christ created the earth as a place for us to live and gain experience.
In order to progress and become like God, each of us had to obtain a body and be tested during a time of probation on the earth.
While on the earth we are out of God’s physical presence.
We do not remember our premortal life.
We must walk by faith rather than by sight.
Scripture Study
1 Nephi 17:36
Alma 30:44
Doctrine and Covenants 88:41–47
Moses 2:1
Moses 6:63
Abraham 3:24–25
JST, John 1:1–3
2 Corinthians 5:6–7
Agency and the Fall of Adam and Eve
Adam and Eve were the first of God’s children to come to the earth.
God created Adam and Eve and placed them in the Garden of Eden.
Adam and Eve were created in God’s image, with bodies of flesh and bones.
While Adam and Eve were in the garden, they were still in God’s presence and could have lived forever.
They lived in innocence, and God provided for their needs.
In the Garden of Eden, God gave Adam and Eve their agency.
He commanded them not to eat the forbidden fruit, or the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
Obeying this commandment meant that they could remain in the garden, but they could not progress by experiencing opposition in mortality.
They could not know joy because they could not experience sorrow and pain.
Satan tempted Adam and Eve to eat the forbidden fruit, and they chose to do so.
This was part of God’s plan.
Because of this choice, they were cast from the garden and out of God’s physical presence.
This event is called the Fall.
Separation from God’s presence is spiritual death.
Adam and Eve became mortal—subject to physical death, or separation of the body and spirit.
They could now experience disease and all types of suffering.
They had moral agency or the ability to choose between good and evil.
This made it possible for them to learn and progress.
It also made it possible for them to make wrong choices and to sin.
In addition, they could now have children, so the rest of God’s spirit children could come to earth, obtain physical bodies, and be tested.
Only in this way could God’s children progress and become like Him.
Teaching about the Fall
When first teaching this doctrine, explain very simply that God chose two of His children, Adam and Eve, to become the first parents on earth.
After their transgression they were subject to both sin and death.
By themselves they could not return to live with Heavenly Father.
The Lord spoke to Adam and taught him the plan of salvation and redemption through the Lord Jesus Christ.
By following that plan, Adam and his family could have joy in this life and return to live with God (see
Alma 18:36
;
22:12–14
).
Scripture Study
In the Garden
2 Nephi 2
Moses 2:26–31
Moses 3:15–17
Moses 5:11
Genesis 1:26–31
Genesis 2:15–17
The Fall
2 Nephi 2:25
Alma 12:22–34
Moses 4
Moses 5:10–12
Genesis 3
Our Life on Earth
Life on earth is an opportunity and a blessing.
Our purpose in this life is to have joy and prepare to return to God’s presence.
In mortality we live in a condition where we are subject to both physical and spiritual death.
God has a perfect, glorified, immortal body of flesh and bones.
To become like God and return to His presence, we too must have a perfect, immortal body of flesh and bones.
However, because of the Fall of Adam and Eve, every person on earth has an imperfect, mortal body and will eventually die.
If not for the Savior Jesus Christ, death would end all hope for a future existence with Heavenly Father.
Along with physical death, sin is a major obstacle that keeps us from becoming like our Father in Heaven and returning to His presence.
In our mortal condition we often yield to temptation, break God’s commandments, and sin.
During our life on earth each of us makes mistakes.
Although it sometimes appears otherwise, sin always leads to unhappiness.
Sin causes feelings of guilt and shame.
Because of our sins, we are unable to return to live with Heavenly Father unless we are first forgiven and cleansed.
While we are in mortality, we have experiences that bring us happiness.
We also have experiences that bring us pain and sorrow, some of which is caused by the sinful acts of others.
These experiences provide us opportunities to learn and to grow, to distinguish good from evil, and to make choices.
God influences us to do good; Satan tempts us to commit sin.
As with physical death, we cannot overcome the effects of sin by ourselves.
We are helpless without the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
Scripture Study
Probation or Testing Period
2 Nephi 2:21
2 Nephi 9:27
Mosiah 3:19
Alma 12:21–24
Alma 34:31–35
Alma 42:2–10
Abraham 3:25–26
Choice
2 Nephi 2:26–29
Joshua 24:15
For the Strength of Youth,
“
Agency and Accountability
”
Good and Evil
Moroni 7:12–19
Sin
Romans 3:23
1 John 1:8–10
1 John 3:4
The Unclean Cannot Be with God
1 Nephi 10:20–21
Alma 41:10–11
3 Nephi 27:19
Moses 6:57
The Atonement of Jesus Christ
Image
Christ in Gethsemane
Before the world was organized, our Heavenly Father chose Jesus Christ to be our Savior and Redeemer.
The atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ made it possible for us to overcome the effects of the Fall.
All of the prophets since the world began have testified of Jesus Christ as our Redeemer.
We will all suffer physical death, but Jesus Christ overcame the obstacle of physical death for us.
When He died on the cross, His spirit became separated from His body.
On the third day, His spirit and His body were reunited eternally, never to be separated again.
He appeared to many people, showing them that He had an immortal body of flesh and bone.
The reuniting of body and spirit is called resurrection and is a gift promised to each of us.
Because of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ, we will all be resurrected regardless of whether we have done good or evil in this life.
We will have a perfect, immortal body of flesh and bones that will never again be subject to disease, pain, or death.
The Resurrection makes it possible to return to God’s presence to be judged but does not guarantee that we will be able to live in His presence.
To receive that blessing, we must also be cleansed from sin.
God sent His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to overcome the obstacle of sin in addition to the obstacle of physical death.
We are not responsible for the Fall of Adam and Eve, but we are responsible for our own sins.
God cannot look on sin with any degree of allowance, and sin prevents us from living in His presence.
Only through the Savior’s grace and mercy can we become clean from sin so that we can live with God again.
This is possible through exercising faith in Jesus Christ, repenting, being baptized, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
To fulfill the plan of salvation, Christ paid the penalty for our sins.
He alone was able to do that.
He was called and prepared in the premortal life.
He was the literal Son of God in
the flesh.
He was sinless and completely obedient to His Father.
Though tempted, He never gave in to temptation.
When the Father asked His Beloved Son to pay the price of the world’s sins, Jesus was prepared and willing.
The Savior’s Atonement included His suffering in the Garden of Gethsemane and His suffering and death on the cross, and it ended with His Resurrection.
Though He suffered beyond comprehension—so much so that He bled from every pore and asked whether it were possible that this burden be lifted from Him—He submitted to the Father’s will in a supreme expression of love for His Father and for us.
This triumph of Jesus Christ over spiritual death by His suffering and over physical death by His Resurrection is called the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
Christ promises to forgive our sins on the condition that we accept Him by exercising faith in Him, repenting, receiving baptism by immersion and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, and striving faithfully to keep His commandments to the end of our lives.
Through continuing repentance, we may obtain forgiveness and be cleansed of our sins by the power of the Holy Ghost.
We are relieved of the burden of guilt and shame, and through Jesus Christ we become worthy to return to the presence of God.
As we rely on the Atonement of Jesus Christ, He can help us endure our trials, sicknesses, and pain.
We can be filled with joy, peace, and consolation.
All that is unfair about life can be made right through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
In paying the penalty for our sins, Jesus did not, however, eliminate our personal responsibility.
We must show that we accept Him and that we will follow His commandments.
Only through the gift of the Savior’s Atonement can we return to live with God.
Scripture Study
Resurrection
2 Nephi 9:6–7
Alma 11:42–45
Alma 40:23
Helaman 14:15–19
Doctrine and Covenants 88:27–32
Luke 24:1–10, 36–39
1 Corinthians 15:20–23
JST, 1 Corinthians 15:40
1 Corinthians 15:41–42
Topical Guide, “
Resurrection
”
Bible Dictionary, “
Death
,” “
Resurrection
”
The Savior’s Atonement
2 Nephi 2:6–8
Alma 7:11–13
Alma 34:8–10
Doctrine and Covenants 19:15–19
Doctrine and Covenants 45:3–5
John 3:16–17
1 John 1:7
Bible Dictionary, “
Atonement
”
The Gospel of Jesus Christ—The Way
2 Nephi 9:1–24
2 Nephi 31
Alma 11:40
3 Nephi 11:31–41
3 Nephi 27
Moroni 7:27–28
The Spirit World
Even though Christ conquered physical death, all people must die, for death is part of the process by which we are transformed from mortality to immortality.
At death our spirits go to the spirit world.
Death does not change our personality or our desires for good or evil.
Those who chose to obey God in this life live in a state of happiness, peace, and rest from troubles and care.
Those who chose not to obey in this life and did not repent live in a state of unhappiness.
In the spirit world the gospel is preached to those who did not obey the gospel or have the opportunity to hear it while on earth.
We remain in the spirit world until we are resurrected.
Scripture Study
Gospel Preached to the Dead
Doctrine and Covenants 138
1 Peter 3:19–20
1 Peter 4:6
Death and the Spirit World
Alma 34:34
Alma 40:11–14
Ecclesiastes 12:7
The Resurrection, Salvation, and Exaltation
When our bodies and spirits are reunited through the Resurrection, we will be brought into God’s presence to be judged.
We will remember perfectly our righteousness and our guilt.
If we have repented, we will receive mercy.
We will be rewarded according to our works and our desires.
Salvation
Through the Savior’s Atonement and Resurrection all people will be saved, or gain salvation, from physical death.
They will be resurrected and become immortal—that is, they will live forever.
Immortality is a free, or unconditional, gift to all people, whether they are righteous or wicked.
People may also be saved, or gain salvation, from individual spiritual death through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, by their faith in Him, by living in obedience to the laws and ordinances of His gospel, and by serving Him.
Eternal life and exaltation are not the same as immortality.
President Russell M.
Nelson taught, “In God’s eternal plan, salvation is an individual matter; exaltation is a family matter” (“
Salvation and Exaltation
,”
Ensign
or
Liahona,
May 2008, 10).
Exaltation
Exaltation, or celestial glory, is the highest state of happiness and glory in the celestial kingdom.
Exaltation is a conditional gift.
President Nelson has taught, “Those qualifying conditions include faith in the Lord, repentance, baptism, receiving the Holy Ghost, and remaining faithful to the ordinances and covenants of the temple” (“
Salvation and Exaltation
,” 9).
Exaltation means living with God forever in eternal families.
It is to know God and Jesus Christ and to experience the life They enjoy.
Resurrection and Reincarnation
Some people may confuse the doctrine of Resurrection with the concept of reincarnation.
The human teaching of reincarnation, that we are born into the world again in a different form, is not true or scriptural.
The doctrine of Resurrection involves receiving an eternal reward of an immortal body of flesh and bone.
This is true doctrine.
Make sure those you teach clearly understand the doctrine of the Resurrection.
Judgment and Kingdoms of Glory
During our mortal lives we make choices regarding good and evil.
God rewards us according to our works and desires.
Because God rewards everyone according to their desires and their deeds done on earth, there are different kingdoms of glory to which we may be assigned after the Judgment.
Celestial Kingdom
Those who have repented of their sins, received the ordinances of the gospel, and kept the associated covenants will be cleansed by the Atonement of Christ.
They will be saved in the celestial kingdom (see
Doctrine and Covenants 137:10
).
In the scriptures this kingdom is compared to the glory or brightness of the sun.
The celestial kingdom has three heavens or degrees (see
Doctrine and Covenants 131:1
), and only those who have an eternal marriage, sealed by the Holy Spirit, can enter into the highest, which is exaltation (see
Doctrine and Covenants 131:2
).
They will live in God’s presence, become like Him, and receive a fulness of joy.
Those in the celestial kingdom who do not have an eternal marriage can enter into another “heaven” or “degree” in the celestial kingdom, but in that place they are ministering angels who “remain separately and singly, without exaltation, in their saved condition, … angels of God forever and ever” (
Doctrine and Covenants 132:17
; see also
Doctrine and Covenants 131:4
; Russell M.
Nelson, “
Celestial Marriage
,”
Ensign
or
Liahona,
Nov.
2008, 92).
Terrestrial Kingdom
People who do not accept the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ in this life or in the world to come but live honorable lives will receive a place in the terrestrial kingdom.
This kingdom is compared to the glory of the moon (see
Doctrine and Covenants 76:71–80
).
Telestial Kingdom
Those who continued in their sins and did not repent in this life or accept the gospel in the world to come will receive their reward in the lowest kingdom, which is called the telestial kingdom.
This kingdom is compared to the glory of the stars (see
Doctrine and Covenants 76:81–86
).
Scripture Study
Resurrection and Restoration
2 Nephi 9:14–15
Jacob 6:8–9
Alma 42:13–15, 22–23
Judgment
2 Nephi 28:23
Mosiah 3:23–25
Alma 5:15–21
Alma 12:12–14
Doctrine and Covenants 132:12
;
137:9
John 5:22
Kingdoms of Glory
3 Nephi 28:10
Doctrine and Covenants 76: Introduction
Doctrine and Covenants 76
Doctrine and Covenants 137
Matthew 5:48
JST, 1 Corinthians 15:40
1 Corinthians 15:41–42
Eternal Life
2 Nephi 31:17–21
Doctrine and Covenants 14:7
Doctrine and Covenants 29:43–44
Doctrine and Covenants 45:8
Doctrine and Covenants 93:19
John 3:16
John 17:3
Plan of Salvation
Image
The Atonement of Jesus Christ makes salvation possible.
Scripture Study, Church Attendance, and Prayer
Scripture study, church attendance, and prayer can help people feel God’s love and recognize truth through the witness of the Holy Ghost.
Encourage those you teach to include these practices as they learn about the plan of salvation and the Atonement of Jesus Christ. (See the “
Pray Often
” section in Lesson 4 for guidance on how you might help someone learn how to pray and read the scriptures.) When they consistently study the scriptures, particularly the Book of Mormon; attend church regularly; and pray to God with faith, sincerity, and real intent (with a commitment to act upon the answers received), God will answer their prayers, guide their lives, and help them discern truth.
Invitation to Be Baptized
As directed by the Spirit, the invitation to be baptized and confirmed should be specific and direct: “Will you follow the example of Jesus Christ by being baptized by someone holding the priesthood authority of God?
We will be holding a baptismal service on [date].
Will you prepare yourself to be baptized on that date?”
Ideas for Teaching
This section has ideas for you to use in preparing for and teaching the information in this lesson.
Pray for the Spirit’s guidance as you decide how to use these ideas.
Add the ideas you select to your lesson plan.
Keep in mind that these ideas are suggestions—not requirements—to help you meet the needs of those you teach.
Short Lesson Plan (3–5 minutes)
The plan of salvation teaches us where we came from, why we are here on earth, and where we will go after this life.
It maps our eternal journey through premortal life, mortal life, death, resurrection, and to our life in the eternities.
The plan also explains what our loving Father in Heaven does to help us make this journey successfully so that we can return to His presence and become like Him.
The plan focuses on the mission and Atonement of Jesus Christ in overcoming the effects of the Fall and making eternal life and exaltation possible for us.
We invite you to ponder and pray about this message.
Premortal Life: God’s Purpose and Plan for Us
The Creation
Agency and the Fall of Adam and Eve
Our Life on Earth
The Atonement of Jesus Christ
The Spirit World
The Resurrection, Salvation, and Exaltation
Judgment and Kingdoms of Glory
Invitations
Will you ask God in prayer to know that what we have taught is true?
Will you repent of your sins?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you follow the example of the Savior and be baptized on (date)?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
Medium Lesson Plan (10–15 minutes)
Our message helps us understand the purpose of life and who we are.
It gives us hope and helps us find peace, joy, and happiness.
It tells us where we came from, why we are here on earth, and where we will go after this life.
God is our Father, and He loves us.
We are His children.
We are part of His family, and we lived with Him before we were born on this earth.
He has a plan of happiness that makes it possible for us to return to His presence after this life.
Our progress depends on how we use our God-given agency, or ability to choose.
As part of that plan, the Fall of Adam and Eve made it possible for us to come to earth, gain a physical body, have experience, and have families of our own.
But the Fall also brought physical death, which is separation of the spirit from the body, and spiritual death, which is separation from God.
Jesus Christ is central to God’s plan.
Christ’s atoning sacrifice overcame the effects of both physical and spiritual death.
We will all be resurrected and will live forever with physical bodies free of pain and sickness.
Christ also made it possible to overcome spiritual death.
As we live His gospel He will mercifully forgive our sins.
He will heal us and replace guilt and shame with peace and happiness in this life.
As part of God’s merciful plan, we will all suffer a physical death.
Our spirits will be separated from our bodies and will live for a time in the spirit world.
We will then be resurrected with an immortal body, an eternal union of our body and spirit.
We will be judged according to our works and desires.
Those who have lived the gospel will receive our Father in Heaven’s greatest gift, the gift of exaltation—to live as a family in His presence.
Our Heavenly Father has again reached out to His children in love to reveal His plan of happiness.
We learn about this wonderful plan in the Book of Mormon, which you can read, ponder, and pray about.
We invite you to attend church and worship with us.
Invitations
Will you ask God in prayer to know that what we have taught is true?
Will you repent of your sins?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you follow the example of the Savior and be baptized on (date)?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
Full Lesson Plan (30–45 minutes)
Premortal Life: God’s Purpose and Plan for Us
God is our Heavenly Father, and we are His children (see
Acts 17:16–34
;
Hebrews 12:9
).
God has a plan for our happiness.
Jesus Christ is central to that plan.
God’s plan of happiness makes it possible to return to His presence (see
Moses 1:39
).
Our eternal progression depends on how we use our agency (see
2 Nephi 2:27–29
).
The Creation
Under the Father’s direction, Jesus Christ created the earth (see
Hebrews 1:1–3
).
Agency and the Fall of Adam and Eve
Adam and Eve were created in God’s image (see
Genesis 1:26–27
).
In the Garden of Eden they were innocent and lived in God’s presence.
Because they partook of the forbidden fruit, they were cast out of the garden (see
Moses 4:19–31
).
This is called the Fall.
They became mortal, were able to have children, and were also subject to sin and death (see
2 Nephi 2:22–25
;
Moses 5:11
).
Our Life on Earth
Our purpose in life is to find lasting peace, joy, and happiness as families and to prepare to return to live with God.
We came to the earth to be tested (see
Abraham 3:24–25
).
We gain a body of flesh and bones, but we are subject to physical death.
God gives commandments.
If we obey, we are blessed.
If we disobey, we sin and receive the consequences.
All sin must be paid for, either by ourselves or by Christ (see
Doctrine and Covenants 19:15–20
).
We make choices, and we all commit sin (see
Romans 3:23
).
We have experiences that bring us happiness and also sorrow.
We cannot overcome either physical or spiritual death without Christ.
The Atonement of Jesus Christ
Because Jesus Christ overcame physical death, we will all be resurrected (see
Alma 11:41–43
).
Through Christ’s Atonement we can become clean from sin so that we can return to live in God’s presence (see
2 Nephi 9:8–9
).
Christ will forgive our sins as we have faith in Him, repent, receive baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost, and endure to the end.
The Spirit World
All people must die.
At death our spirits go to the spirit world.
We live in either a state of misery or a state of peace and rest, depending on how we lived in this life.
The Resurrection, Salvation, and Exaltation
Our spirits and bodies will be reunited in the Resurrection (see
Alma 11:42–45
;
40:23
).
Eternal life and exaltation are gifts of God given to those who fully obey the gospel of Jesus Christ (see
Doctrine and Covenants 14:7
;
132:17
).
Judgment and Kingdoms of Glory (see
Doctrine and Covenants 76
;
137
;
1 Corinthians 15:40–42
)
We will return to God’s presence to be judged according to our works and desires.
If we have repented, we will receive mercy.
We receive a kingdom of glory according to our works and desires (see
Doctrine and Covenants 137:9
).
Those who receive the gospel and live it valiantly throughout their lives will receive the celestial kingdom (see
Doctrine and Covenants 76:50–70
).
Honorable people who are “blinded by the craftiness of men” and who are “not valiant in the testimony of Jesus [Christ]” receive the terrestrial kingdom (see
Doctrine and Covenants 76:75, 79
).
Those who sin and do not repent will receive the telestial glory after they suffer for their sins.
Invitations
Will you ask God in prayer to know that what we have taught is true?
Will you repent of your sins?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you follow the example of the Savior and be baptized on (date)?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
Questions to Ask after You Teach
What questions do you have about what we have taught?
What do you understand about God’s plan for you and your family?
From what we have taught you, what do you understand about the role of Jesus Christ?
What does that mean to you?
Key Definitions
Following are terms that are frequently not understood.
Make sure you explain them clearly and find out if those you are teaching understand.
Atonement of Jesus Christ:
As used in the scriptures, to atone is to suffer the penalty for an act of sin, thereby removing the effects of sin from the repentant sinners and allowing them to be reconciled to God.
Jesus Christ suffered in Gethsemane and on the cross.
He was the only one capable of making a perfect Atonement for all mankind.
He suffered the penalty for our sins in Gethsemane and died on the cross.
He took upon Himself the pains, sicknesses, temptations, afflictions, and infirmities of us all (see
Alma 7:11–12
).
Exaltation:
To become like our Father in Heaven and live in His presence as members of His family.
President Nelson has taught, “To be exalted—or to gain exaltation—refers to the highest state of happiness and glory in the celestial realm” (“
Salvation and Exaltation
,” 8).
Exaltation comes through the Atonement of Christ and through obedience to all the laws and ordinances of the gospel.
Fall (of Adam and Eve):
When Adam and Eve ate the forbidden fruit, they became mortal—that is, subject to sin and death.
Adam became the “first flesh” upon the earth (
Moses 3:7
).
Latter-day revelation makes clear that the Fall is a blessing and that Adam and Eve should be honored as the first parents of all mankind.
Immortality:
The condition of living forever in a resurrected state, not subject to physical death.
Judgment:
God, through Jesus Christ, will judge us individually to determine the eternal glory we will receive.
This judgment will be based on our obedience to God’s commandments, including our acceptance of the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
We will receive our eternal reward based on whether our works and desires have been good or evil.
Mortality:
The time from birth until physical death.
Physical death:
Separation of our spirit, which lives forever and cannot die, from our physical body.
Premortal life (premortal existence; pre-earth life):
As spirit children of our Father in Heaven, we lived in His presence before we were born on this earth.
In premortal life we did not have physical bodies.
Redemption:
To deliver, to purchase, or to ransom, such as to free a person from bondage by payment.
Redemption refers to the Atonement of Jesus Christ and to deliverance from sin.
Jesus’s Atonement redeems all mankind from physical death.
Through His Atonement, those who have faith in Him and repent are also redeemed from spiritual death.
Resurrection:
The reuniting of the spirit body with the physical body of flesh and bones after death.
After resurrection, the spirit and body will never again be separated, and the person is immortal.
Every person born on earth will be resurrected because Jesus Christ overcame death.
Salvation:
To be saved from physical and spiritual death. “We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam’s transgression; … that through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel” (
Articles of Faith 1:2–3
).
All people will be saved from physical death, or resurrected, by the grace of God, through the death and Resurrection of Jesus Christ.
This is an unconditional gift from the Savior to all human beings, regardless of the choices they make during this life.
Salvation from spiritual death (sin) is conditional.
President Russell M.
Nelson taught, “People may also be saved from individual spiritual death through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, by their faith in Him, by living in obedience to the laws and ordinances of His gospel, and by serving Him” (“
Salvation and Exaltation
,” 8).
Spiritual death:
Separation from God and His influences; to die as to things pertaining to righteousness.
Spiritual death was introduced into the world by the Fall of Adam and Eve (see
Alma 42:6–7
).
Mortals with sinful thoughts, words, and works are spiritually dead while still alive on earth (see
2 Nephi 9:39
).
Through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, men and women can become clean from sin and overcome spiritual death as they repent and live the principles and ordinances of the gospel (see
Articles of Faith 1:2–3
).
Other Terms That May Need to Be Explained to Those You Teach
Baptism by immersion
Celestial
Cleansed [from sin]
Creation
Eternal progression
Faith
Forbidden fruit
Forgiven [of sin]
Garden of Eden
Kingdoms of glory
Opposition
Plan of salvation
Probation
Repent
Sin
Spirit world
Telestial
Terrestrial
Tree of knowledge of good and evil
Lesson 3
The Gospel of Jesus Christ
Image
Second Coming
Your Purpose
As you teach, help people prepare for baptism and confirmation.
Consider the qualifications for baptism taught in
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
and in the related baptismal interview questions.
Prayerfully decide what to teach and which invitations to extend based on the person’s needs, interests, and situation.
Be mindful of the questions and level of understanding of those you teach.
Baptismal Interview Questions
Do you believe that God is our Eternal Father?
Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Savior and Redeemer of the world?
Do you believe that the Church and the gospel of Jesus Christ have been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith?
Invitations
Will you continue to develop faith in Jesus Christ by continuing to learn about His gospel?
Will you repent and pray for forgiveness of sins?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you be baptized a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on (date)?
Will you be confirmed and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
The Divine Mission of Jesus Christ
God sent His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, into the world so that all of God’s children would have the possibility of experiencing joy and peace in this world and everlasting life in the world to come with their families.
Additionally, through Jesus Christ all God’s children will live again when their bodies and spirits are reunited in the Resurrection (see
Doctrine and Covenants 76:40–42
).
As the result of Adam and Eve’s transgression, death is experienced by all people.
And because all people have made mistakes and sinned, they are unable to return to live with God because “no unclean thing can dwell” in His presence (
1 Nephi 10:21
).
However, through the Savior’s grace and mercy we will live again as resurrected beings and can be clean from sin so that we can live in our Heavenly Father’s presence.
Becoming clean from sin is being healed spiritually (see
3 Nephi 9:13
;
18:32
).
Because of the Savior’s sacrifice, known as the Atonement of Christ, all people will be brought back into the presence of the Lord to be judged according to their works and their desires (see
2 Nephi 9:10–16
;
Helaman 14:15–18
;
3 Nephi 27:14–22
;
Doctrine and Covenants 137:9
) and will be raised from the dead.
We will be judged according to the laws of justice and mercy.
Justice is the unchanging law that brings consequences for actions—blessings for obedience to God’s commandments and penalties for disobedience.
We all commit sin.
Sin makes us unclean, and no unclean thing can live in God’s presence (see
1 Nephi 10:21
;
3 Nephi 27:19
;
Moses 6:57
).
The Savior satisfied the demands of justice for those who repent of their sins and endeavor to keep all of His commandments when He stood in our place and suffered the penalty for our sins.
This act is called the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
Because of this selfless act, Christ can plead with the Father on our behalf.
Heavenly Father can apply mercy, withhold punishment from us, and welcome us into His presence.
Our Heavenly Father shows mercy when He forgives us of our sins and helps us return to dwell in His presence.
However, Jesus did not eliminate our personal responsibility.
He forgives our sins when we accept Him, repent, and obey His commandments.
Through Jesus Christ’s Atonement and living the gospel we can enter the presence of our Heavenly Father permanently.
We show that we accept Christ and that we have faith in Him by doing His will and keeping His commandments, including obeying the first principles and ordinances of the gospel.
Nephi refers to these principles and ordinances as “the doctrine of Christ” (
2 Nephi 31:2
–
32:6
).
Sin
The notion of “sin” means different things in different cultures.
In some cultures it is closely associated with the concept of committing crime.
In others it applies only if one is caught doing something wrong and thus brings shame to a family or community.
Clarify that sin is disobedience to God’s commandments and results in becoming separated from God.
God knows all that we do and think, and we displease Him when we sin.
Do not discuss your past transgressions or ask those you teach to discuss their past transgressions.
Scripture Study
God Sent His Son
Alma 11:40
John 3:16–17
Salvation through Christ
2 Nephi 2:6–8
2 Nephi 9:21–24
Alma 34:8–9, 14–16
Christ Is Our Advocate
Doctrine and Covenants 45:3–5
Mercy and Justice
Mosiah 15:9
Alma 42:22–25
The Gospel of Christ and Doctrine of Christ
The Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ (see
Doctrine and Covenants 42:12
).
It also contains the clearest presentation of the gospel of Jesus Christ, sometimes referred to as the doctrine of Christ, found anywhere in scripture.
According to the Book of Mormon the gospel of Jesus Christ includes five key points: (1) faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; (2) repentance through the Atonement of Christ; (3) baptism by immersion in Christ’s name; (4) the gift of the Holy Ghost; and (5) enduring to the end (see
2 Nephi 31
;
3 Nephi 11
;
27
).
Additionally, the Book of Mormon teaches us what we must believe about Christ in order to have faith in Him (see
3 Nephi 27:13–15
).
Faith in Jesus Christ
Image
portrait of Christ
The gospel of Jesus Christ begins with faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.
Having faith in Christ includes having a firm belief that He is the Only Begotten Son of God and the Savior and Redeemer of the world.
It is to believe there is no “salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved” (
Acts 4:12
).
There are other things that we need to believe if we are to have faith in Christ (see
3 Nephi 27:13–15
).
We recognize that we can return to live with our Heavenly Father only by relying on His Son’s grace and mercy.
When we have faith in Christ, we accept and apply His Atonement and His teachings.
We trust Him and what He says.
We know that He has the power to keep His promises.
We can develop faith in Christ through humility and doing His will and keeping His commandments.
Heavenly Father blesses those who have faith to listen to and obey His Son.
Faith in Christ leads to action.
It leads to sincere and lasting change.
Having faith causes us to try as
hard as we can to learn about and become more like our Savior with “unshaken faith in him, relying wholly upon the merits of him who is mighty to save” (
2 Nephi 31:19
).
We want to learn His will and keep His commandments.
Even though we will still make mistakes, we show our love for Him by striving through the power of Christ’s Atonement to keep His commandments and avoid sin.
We believe in Christ, and we believe that He wants us to keep all His commandments.
We show our faith by obeying Him.
We pray in faith for strength to conquer temptation.
As we live a specific commandment, we learn the truthfulness of it by experience (see
John 7:17
).
We also grow in faith by hearing and reading the word of God (see
Romans 10:17
;
Helaman 15:7–8
).
As we obey God, He blesses us.
He gives us power to meet life’s challenges.
He helps us change the desires of our hearts.
Through our faith in Jesus Christ, He can heal us, both physically and spiritually.
Scripture Study
Faith, Power, and Salvation
1 Nephi 7:12
2 Nephi 9:23
2 Nephi 25:23
Moroni 7:33–34
Moroni 10:7
The Doctrine of Faith
Alma 32
Ephesians 2:8
Bible Dictionary, “
Faith
”
Examples of Faith
Ether 12
Hebrews 11
Works and Obedience
1 Nephi 3:7
Doctrine and Covenants 130:20–21
James 2:17–26
Faith unto Repentance
Alma 34
Repentance through the Atonement of Jesus Christ
Repentance through the Atonement of Jesus Christ is another important principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Our faith in Christ and our love for Him lead us to repent, or to change our thoughts, beliefs, and behaviors that are not in harmony with His will.
Repentance includes forming a fresh view of God, ourselves, and the world.
When we repent, we feel godly sorrow and return to Him with full purpose of heart.
We stop doing things that are wrong and continue doing things that are right.
Bringing our lives in line with God’s will through repentance and faith on Jesus Christ is a central purpose of our lives.
We can return to live with God the Father only through Christ’s grace and mercy, and we receive Christ’s mercy on the condition of repentance.
To repent, we recognize our sins and feel remorse, or godly sorrow.
We confess our sins to God.
We also confess very serious sins to God’s authorized Church leaders, who will support us as we truly repent.
We ask God to forgive us.
We do all we can to correct the problems our actions may have caused; this is called restitution.
As we repent, our view of ourselves and the world changes.
As we change, we recognize that we are children of God and that we need not continue making the same mistakes over and over.
If we sincerely repent, we turn away from our sins and do them no more.
We resist any desire to commit sin.
Our desire to follow God grows stronger and deeper.
Sincere repentance brings several results.
We feel God’s forgiveness and His peace in our lives.
Our guilt and sorrow are swept away.
We feel the influence of the Spirit in greater abundance.
And when we pass from this life, we will be more prepared to live with our Heavenly Father and His Son.
Even after we have accepted Christ and repented of our sins, we may fall short and sin again.
We should continually try to correct these transgressions, remembering we “can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth” us (
Philippians 4:13
).
In addition, we should continually improve—develop Christlike qualities, grow in knowledge, and serve more effectively.
As we learn more about what the Savior wants for us, we will want to show our love by obeying Him.
Thus, as we repent daily, we will find that our lives will change and improve.
Our hearts and our behavior will become more Christlike.
We will come to feel great joy in repenting daily.
Scripture Study
We All Sin
Romans 3:23
1 John 1:7–8
Repentance
Alma 34:8–17
Doctrine and Covenants 58:42–43
Doctrine and Covenants 61:2
2 Corinthians 7:9–10
Bible Dictionary, “
Repentance
”
Redemption and Forgiveness
Helaman 5:10–11
Mercy Claims the Penitent
Alma 12:32–35
Alma 42:13, 21–24
Doctrine and Covenants 18:10–13
Baptism, Our First Covenant with God
Image
John the Baptist baptising Christ
Faith in Jesus Christ and repentance prepare us for the ordinances of baptism and confirmation.
An ordinance is a sacred ceremony or rite that shows that we have entered into a covenant with God.
God has always required His children to make covenants.
A covenant is a binding and solemn agreement between God and His children.
God promises to bless us, and we promise to obey Him.
God sets the terms of gospel covenants, which we either accept or reject.
Keeping covenants brings blessings in this life and exaltation in the life to come.
Covenants place us under a strong obligation to honor our promises to God.
We should desire to worthily receive the covenants that God offers us and then strive to keep them.
Our covenants remind us to repent every day of our lives, relying upon Jesus Christ.
By loving the Lord, keeping His commandments, and loving and serving others we receive and retain a remission of our sins through “him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood” (
Revelation 1:5
).
Covenants are usually made by means of sacred ordinances, such as baptism.
These ordinances are administered by priesthood authority in the name of Jesus Christ.
Through the ordinance of baptism, for example, we covenant to take upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ, always remember Him, and keep His commandments.
As we keep our part of the covenant, God promises the constant companionship of the Holy Ghost, a remission of our sins, and being born again.
Through sacred ordinances, such as baptism and confirmation, we learn about and experience God’s power (see
Doctrine and Covenants 84:20
).
Jesus taught that we must be baptized by immersion for the remission, or forgiveness, of our sins.
Baptism is an essential ordinance of salvation.
No person can enter the kingdom of God without being baptized by the Lord’s authorized servant.
Christ set the example for us by being baptized.
Baptism by immersion is a symbol of the death, burial, and Resurrection of the Savior.
In a similar way, it represents the end of our old life of sin and a commitment to live a new life as a disciple of Christ.
The Savior taught that baptism is a rebirth.
When we are baptized we begin the process of being born again and become spiritual sons and daughters of Christ (see
Mosiah 5:7–8
;
Romans 8:14–17
).
We must be baptized to become members of His kingdom on earth, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to eventually enter the kingdom of heaven.
This ordinance is a law of God and must be performed by His authority and in His name (see
Matthew 28:19–20
).
A bishop or mission president must give a priesthood holder permission to perform a baptism or confirmation.
Little children do not need to be baptized and are redeemed through the mercy of Jesus Christ (see
Moroni 8:4–24
).
They are not to be baptized until they reach the age of accountability, which is eight years of age (see
Doctrine and Covenants 68:27
).
Before baptism we show our willingness to enter a covenant to keep all the commandments for the rest of our lives.
After baptism we show our faith by keeping our covenant.
We also regularly renew the covenant we make when baptized by partaking of the sacrament.
Partaking of the sacrament weekly is a commandment.
It helps us remain worthy to have the Spirit with us always.
It is a weekly reminder of our covenant.
Jesus Christ introduced this ordinance to His Apostles just before His Atonement.
He restored it through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
The Savior commanded that priesthood holders should administer the sacrament in remembrance of His body and His blood, which was shed for us.
By partaking of the sacrament worthily we promise always to remember His sacrifice, we renew our promises, and we receive anew the promise that the Spirit will always be with us.
Before Baptism
Ensure that those you teach have developed faith in Christ, repented of transgressions by relying upon the sacrifice of the Savior, and made sufficient changes in their lives to qualify as commanded in
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
.
Those you teach “must press forward with a steadfastness in Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope, and a love of God and of all men [and women]” (
2 Nephi 31:20
).
Additionally, they must promise to live the principles of moral worthiness, obey the Word of Wisdom, and obey the law of tithing.
If you feel additional preparation is needed, you should postpone baptism until those you teach meet the standard outlined by the Lord in scripture. (See “Statement on Missionary Work,” First Presidency letter, Dec.
11, 2002.)
“Before baptism each [person] should receive all the missionary [lessons], meet the bishop or branch president, and attend several sacrament meetings” (“Statement on Missionary Work,” First Presidency letter, Dec.
11, 2002).
Scripture Study
Christ’s Example
2 Nephi 31:4–18
Matthew 3:13–17
The Baptismal Covenant
Mosiah 5:8–10
Mosiah 18:8–10
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
Qualifications for Baptism
2 Nephi 9:23
Mosiah 18:8–10
Alma 7:14–15
3 Nephi 11:23–27
Moroni 6:1–4
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
Acts 2:37–39
The Lord Institutes the Sacrament
3 Nephi 18:1–18
Luke 22:15–20
Promised Blessings of Baptism
Mosiah 4:11–12, 26
Moroni 8:25–26
John 3:5
Romans 6:4
The Sacrament Prayers
Moroni 4
and
5
Doctrine and Covenants 20:75–79
Partaking of the Sacrament
Doctrine and Covenants 27:2
1 Corinthians 11:23–29
Necessity for Authority
Doctrine and Covenants 22
Hebrews 5:4
The Gift of the Holy Ghost
Jesus taught that we must be baptized of water and also of the Spirit.
Baptism by water must be followed by baptism of fire and of the Spirit or it is incomplete (see
2 Nephi 31:13–14
).
Only when we receive baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost can we receive a remission of our sins and become completely spiritually reborn.
We then begin a new spiritual life as disciples of Christ.
The Holy Ghost has a sanctifying, cleansing effect upon us.
Through the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, we can receive and retain a remission of sins through continued faith in Christ, repentance, and following the will of God and obedience to His commandments.
Those who receive the gift of the Holy Ghost and remain worthy can enjoy His companionship throughout their lives.
The Holy Ghost testifies of Christ and helps us recognize the truth.
He provides spiritual strength and helps us do what is right.
He comforts us during times of trial or sorrow.
He warns us of spiritual or physical danger.
The Holy Ghost provides the power by which we teach and learn.
The gift of the Holy Ghost is one of our Heavenly Father’s most precious gifts.
Through the power of the Holy Ghost we can feel God’s love and direction for us.
This gift is a foretaste of eternal joy and a promise of eternal life and exaltation.
After a person is baptized by water, one or more authorized priesthood holders lay their hands upon the person’s head and confirm the person a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
They then confer the gift of the Holy Ghost.
The priesthood authority needed to perform this ordinance, which was lost centuries ago through the death of the Savior’s Apostles, was restored through angelic administration to a modern prophet, Joseph Smith.
Only through membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints can one receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, the right to have the Holy Ghost as a constant companion.
This authority makes The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints different from any other religion in the world.
By the Lord’s own declaration, it is “the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth” (
Doctrine and Covenants 1:30
).
Guidance from the Holy Ghost
Explain to those whom you are teaching that Satan opposes God and entices people to commit sin.
To retain the good feelings they have had while meeting the missionaries, they should read the Book of Mormon, pray, attend church, and obey the commandments.
Explain that having the continued guidance of the Holy Ghost is one of the benefits of being baptized and confirmed.
As needed, teach the person how to pray.
See the sections
“Pray to Know the Truth through the Holy Ghost”
in Lesson 1 and “
Pray Often
” in Lesson 4 for guidance on how you might help someone learn how to pray.
Scripture Study
Nature of the Holy Ghost
Doctrine and Covenants 130:22–23
John 3:1–8
Galatians 5:22–23
Bible Dictionary, “
Earnest
” and “
Holy Ghost
”
Blessings and Influence from the Holy Ghost
2 Nephi 32:1–5
2 Nephi 33:1–2
Moses 6:61
John 14:26
Topical Guide, “
Holy Ghost, Comforter
” and “
Holy Ghost, Gifts of
”
Importance of the Gift of the Holy Ghost
2 Nephi 31:11–12, 18, 21
3 Nephi 18:36–37
3 Nephi 19:13
3 Nephi 27:19–20
Doctrine and Covenants 19:31
Doctrine and Covenants 33:15
Acts 19:1–6
Endure to the End
The gospel of Jesus Christ includes obtaining and increasing our faith in Jesus Christ, repenting of our sins through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, being baptized by immersion by an authorized servant of the Lord in the name of Jesus Christ, receiving baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, and enduring to the end.
Enduring to the end does not simply mean holding on until we die.
Enduring to the end includes obtaining Christlike attributes through the Savior’s Atonement.
Enduring to the end includes following the Father’s will and obeying His commandments, fasting, prayer, scripture study, observing the Sabbath day, repenting, and making and keeping sacred temple covenants.
Once we have entered the strait and narrow path by our faith in Jesus Christ, repentance, and the ordinances of baptism and confirmation, we must exert every effort to stay on the path.
We do so by continually exercising faith in and relying upon Jesus Christ, repenting, making commitments, and following the Spirit.
Once we have been forgiven of our sins, we should try every day to remain free from sin so that we can always have the Holy Ghost with us.
In the covenant of baptism, we promise our Father in Heaven that we will obey His commandments for the rest of our lives.
If we fall short, we must repent in order to retain the blessings of the covenant.
We promise to do good works, serve others, and follow the Savior’s example.
In the scriptures this lifelong commitment is often called “enduring to the end.”
By following the gospel path, we can draw closer to God, conquer temptation and sin, and enjoy the gift of the Holy Ghost more abundantly.
As we patiently, faithfully, and consistently follow this path throughout our lives, we will qualify for exaltation (see
page 53
for additional information regarding the difference between salvation and exaltation).
Faith in Christ; repentance; making, renewing, and keeping covenants; and being cleansed by the Spirit become a pattern of living.
Our actions in daily life are shaped and governed by these principles.
Peace and joy come by following this way, and we gradually grow in Christlike attributes.
Eventually, as we follow this way and “press forward with a steadfastness in Christ … and endure to the end,” we are promised, “Ye shall have eternal life” and exaltation (
2 Nephi 31:20
; see also
Doctrine and Covenants 132:17
).
Scripture Study
Endure to the End
2 Nephi 9:24
2 Nephi 31:14–20
3 Nephi 27:16–17
Matthew 10:22
Blessings for Those Who Endure
1 Nephi 13:37
3 Nephi 15:9
Doctrine and Covenants 14:7
Invitation to Be Baptized
As directed by the Spirit, the invitation to be baptized and confirmed should be specific and direct: “Will you follow the example of Jesus Christ by being baptized by someone holding the priesthood authority of God?
We will be holding a baptismal service on [date].
Will you prepare yourself to be baptized on that date?”
Ideas for Teaching
This section has ideas for you to use in preparing for and teaching the information in this lesson.
Pray for the Spirit’s guidance as you decide how to use these ideas.
Add the ideas you select to your lesson plan.
Keep in mind that these ideas are suggestions—not requirements—to help you meet the needs of those you teach.
Short Lesson Plan (3–5 minutes)
The gospel of Jesus Christ is the only way to eternal life and exaltation.
The first principles and ordinances of His gospel are faith in Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the gift of the Holy Ghost.
We must then endure to the end.
By applying these principles throughout our lives, we follow the example of the Savior, learn to live His commandments, and develop Christlike attributes.
We can be forgiven of our sins, and we will be able to return to live in the presence of our Father in Heaven.
The Divine Mission of Jesus Christ
The Gospel of Christ and Doctrine of Christ
Faith in Jesus Christ
Repentance through the Atonement of Jesus Christ
Baptism, Our First Covenant with God
The Gift of the Holy Ghost
Endure to the End
Invitations
Will you continue to develop faith in Jesus Christ by continuing to learn about His gospel?
Will you repent and pray for forgiveness of sins?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you be baptized a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on (date)?
Will you be confirmed and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
Medium Lesson Plan (10–15 minutes)
Our message is one of faith and hope.
We love and worship Jesus Christ.
He is central to God’s plan for our happiness.
Christ’s atoning sacrifice makes it possible for us to have exaltation in the presence of God.
As we live His gospel, He will mercifully forgive our sins.
He will heal us and replace guilt and shame with peace and happiness in this life.
The gospel of Jesus Christ is simple.
It begins with faith in Christ.
We believe in Him, trust Him, and depend on Him.
Such faith leads us to repent—to stop doing things that are wrong and continue doing things that are right.
Our faith in Him also makes us want to show our love by keeping His commandments, including baptism.
After baptism, He promises to give us the gift of the Holy Ghost.
The Holy Ghost will guide us, comfort us, and help us know the truth.
We can know in our hearts
and our minds when the Holy Ghost is with us.
We will have feelings of peace, love, and joy.
We will want to serve others.
We will strive throughout our lives to please the Lord.
Jesus Christ has restored His gospel through a latter-day prophet.
We learn about the gospel in the Book of Mormon, which you can read, ponder, and pray about.
God will tell you by the power of the Holy Ghost that it is true.
As you come to know it is true, you will want to repent and be baptized so that you may receive a remission of your sins and the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Invitations
Will you continue to develop faith in Jesus Christ by continuing to learn about His gospel?
Will you repent and pray for forgiveness of sins?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you be baptized a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on (date)?
Will you be confirmed and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
Full Lesson Plan (30–45 minutes)
The Divine Mission of Jesus Christ
God sent His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, into the world (see
John 3:16–17
).
Only through Christ’s grace and mercy can we become clean from sin (see
2 Nephi 2:6–8
).
Because of the Savior’s sacrifice, known as the Atonement of Christ, all people will be brought back into the presence of the Lord to be judged (see
2 Nephi 9:10–16
).
We are responsible to accept Christ, repent, and obey.
The Gospel of Christ and Doctrine of Christ
The Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ (see
Doctrine and Covenants 42:12
).
The gospel of Jesus Christ includes faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance through the Atonement of Christ, baptism by immersion in Christ’s name, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end (see
2 Nephi 31
;
3 Nephi 11
;
27
).
The Book of Mormon also teaches us what we must believe about Jesus Christ in order to have faith in Him (see
3 Nephi 27:13–15
).
Faith in Jesus Christ
We are to believe in Christ as the Savior of the world.
He wants us to accept and follow His teachings.
We receive blessings when we obey (see
Doctrine and Covenants 130:20–21
).
Repentance through the Atonement of Jesus Christ
Faith in Christ leads to repentance (see
Alma 34
).
We feel godly sorrow (see
2 Corinthians 7:9–10
).
We stop doing things that are wrong and continue doing things that are right.
We confess our sins to the Lord, and we also confess serious sins to Church leaders, who can help us repent (see
Doctrine and Covenants 58:43
).
We receive forgiveness; guilt and sorrow are replaced by peace (see
Alma 36:17–21
).
Baptism, Our First Covenant with God
An ordinance is a sacred rite by which we make covenants with God.
A covenant is a solemn agreement between God and His children.
Keeping covenants brings blessings.
We are baptized by immersion for the remission of sins (see
Articles of Faith 1:4
).
When we are baptized we begin a new life of commitment to Christ (see
Romans 6:3–8
).
Baptism must be performed by one holding priesthood authority.
We renew our covenant by partaking of the sacrament weekly (
Doctrine and Covenants 20:77, 79
).
The Gift of the Holy Ghost
Baptism by immersion is followed by baptism of the Spirit; the two are inseparable.
Priesthood holders confer the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands.
The Holy Ghost teaches us, cleanses us, comforts us, testifies of the truth, warns us, and directs us (see
2 Nephi 32:1–5
;
Mosiah 5:1–6
;
Moroni 10:5
;
Doctrine and Covenants 36:2
).
Endure to the End
We must continue on the path once we have been baptized and confirmed.
We do our best to remain free of sin so that we can enjoy the gift of the Holy Ghost.
By faithfully following the gospel path of faith, repentance, making and keeping covenants, and receiving the Holy Ghost, we can qualify for eternal life and exaltation by being true to covenants made in the holy temple (see
2 Nephi 31:14–20
;
Doctrine and Covenants 132:17
).
We must continually repent throughout our lives (see
Doctrine and Covenants 19:15–20
).
Invitations
Will you continue to develop faith in Jesus Christ by continuing to learn about His gospel?
Will you repent and pray for forgiveness of sins?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and ask God in prayer to know that it is the word of God?
Will you be baptized a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on (date)?
Will you be confirmed and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost?
Will you attend church with us this Sunday?
May we set a time for our next visit?
Commandments from
lesson 4
that you choose to include.
Questions to Ask after You Teach
What questions do you have about what we have taught?
What does it mean to repent?
Why is the gift of the Holy Ghost an essential part of the gospel?
Why is it important for you to be baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost?
Was there anything about our Church meetings that you did not understand?
What did you enjoy about our Church meetings?
Key Definitions
Confirmation:
The laying on of hands by those holding the Melchizedek Priesthood in order to become a member of the Church and to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Covenant:
An agreement between God and His children.
We do not act as equals in the agreement.
God gives the conditions for the covenant, and we agree to do what He asks us to do.
God then promises us certain blessings for our obedience.
We receive ordinances by covenant.
When we make such covenants, we promise to honor them.
For example, members of the Church covenant with the Lord at baptism and renew that covenant by partaking of the sacrament.
We make further covenants in the temple.
The Lord’s people are a covenant people.
We are greatly blessed as we keep our covenants with the Lord.
Endure to the end:
To remain true to the commandments of God and be true to the endowment and sealing ordinances of the temple despite temptation, opposition, and adversity throughout life.
Exaltation:
To live forever as families in God’s presence (see
Doctrine and Covenants 132:19–20
).
Exaltation is God’s greatest gift to His sons and daughters.
Gospel:
God’s plan of salvation, made possible through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
The gospel includes the eternal truths or laws, covenants, and ordinances needed for mankind to return to the presence of God.
Grace:
The enabling power from Jesus Christ that allows us to obtain blessings in this life and to gain eternal life and exaltation after we have exercised faith, repented, and given our best effort to keep the commandments.
Such divine help or strength is given through the mercy and love of Jesus Christ.
We all need divine grace because of Adam and Eve’s Fall and also because of our weaknesses.
Mercy:
The spirit of compassion, tenderness, and forgiveness.
Mercy is one of the attributes of God.
Jesus Christ offers mercy to us through His atoning sacrifice on conditions of repentance.
Restitution:
The return of something that has been taken away or lost.
Other Terms That May Need to Be Explained to Those You Teach
Clean from sin
Confession
Forgiveness
Prayer
Sacrament
Strait and narrow path
Temptation
Notes
Lesson 4
The Commandments
Image
Moses with the tablets
Teaching This Lesson
There are many ways to teach the commandments found in this lesson.
For example, you might teach a few of the commandments from this lesson as part of the first three lessons, or you might teach several commandments as a single lesson.
What you do should be determined by the needs of those you are teaching and direction from the Spirit.
Prepare to Teach
Your purpose in teaching the commandments is to help people live the gospel by exercising faith in Jesus Christ and repenting as they prepare for baptism and confirmation and to help them remain faithful after baptism.
Help those you teach understand that enduring to the end includes keeping the commandments of God.
By obeying the commandments, people will grow in their testimony of the gospel, show that they have “broken hearts and contrite spirits,” and begin to repent of all their sins (see
Moroni 6:1–4
;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
).
This lesson is organized differently from the first three.
The first three lessons explain the doctrinal foundation for the gospel of Jesus Christ.
This lesson explains specific commandments God has given that help us apply gospel principles in our lives.
There are many ways to teach this lesson.
The approach you take should be determined by the needs, interests, and situation of the people you teach and the direction of the Spirit.
Prayerfully decide what to teach and which invitations to extend.
Be mindful of the questions and level of understanding of those you teach.
Constantly think and pray about how to help them live the gospel.
Ideas include:
Teaching one or more commandments as part of another lesson.
When doing so, consider the principle taught in
Alma 12:32
: “God gave unto them commandments,
after
having made known unto them the plan of redemption” (italics added).
Certain commandments, such as prayer and scripture study, might be taught best as part of the first three lessons.
Other commandments might be best taught after you have laid the doctrinal foundation of the gospel found in the first three lessons.
Teaching two or three of the commandments as a single lesson.
Teaching a single commandment as a lesson.
Teaching the commandments in the context of the gospel.
Briefly review the lesson on the gospel of Jesus Christ before teaching one or more of the commandments.
As you do so, you can help people see how the commandments fit into the larger picture of exercising faith in the Savior and repenting in preparation for baptism and confirmation.
Their lives can be blessed as they see the gospel of Jesus Christ as a pattern for living.
You may be able to teach some people in a few visits; others may require more visits.
You have the flexibility to teach the lessons in whatever way best helps people fully prepare for their baptism and confirmation.
Your purpose is not only to cover the material; it is to help others come unto Christ through faith in Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
Rarely should a lesson go over 45 minutes.
You may find that time may only allow shorter teaching visits.
In this case, you may need frequent, short teaching visits covering smaller portions of material.
There are many ways you may approach teaching this lesson.
Which commandment you teach, when you teach it, and how much time you give to it is best determined by the needs of the people you teach and the direction of the Spirit.
Learn about the Commandments and Commitments
As you study this lesson, follow the pattern below:
Study the section that describes the commandment and write a simple lesson plan with three to five main points.
Teach a two- or three-minute version to your companion.
Practice how you will extend each invitation and how you will resolve concerns.
Discuss ways to follow up on each commitment that you have invited others to accept.
Obedience
God gives us commandments for our benefit.
They are instructions from a loving Father in Heaven to help us have happy lives.
He also gives us agency, or the ability and opportunity to choose between good and evil.
When we obey God, we follow the influence of the Spirit and choose to conform to His will.
Obedience to the commandments brings us peace in this life and eternal life and exaltation in the world to come.
Obedience shows our love for God.
Disobedience brings us sorrow.
Heavenly Father knows our weaknesses and is patient with us.
He blesses us as we rely upon His Son and strive to obey His commandments.
He expects us to obey Him so He can bless us.
Scripture Study
Agency
2 Nephi 2:26–29
Alma 12:31
Doctrine and Covenants 58:26–29
Doctrine and Covenants 82:8–10
Topical Guide, “
Agency
”
Obedience
Doctrine and Covenants 130:20–21
John 14:15, 21
Ecclesiastes 12:13
Invitation
Will you obey the laws of God?
Pray Often
God commands us to pray to Him.
You can pray at any time and in any setting.
The Lord has taught us to kneel and pray in the morning and in the evening, as individuals and with our families.
Our Heavenly Father hears and answers our prayers.
Through daily prayer we receive divine guidance and blessings.
We should always pray sincerely.
We should also pray with “real intent,” which means we are committed to act on the answer that we receive.
We pray with faith to our Father in Heaven in the name of Jesus Christ (see
Moses 5:8
).
Because He is our Father and we are His children, He will answer our prayers.
We begin our prayers by addressing our Father in Heaven.
We end our prayers by saying, “In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.”
In prayer we speak openly and honestly with our loving Father in Heaven.
We express gratitude and thanksgiving for our blessings.
We may acknowledge our love for Him.
We also ask for help, protection, and direction according to our needs.
As we pray with faith, sincerity, and real intent, we will see God’s influence in our lives.
He will guide us in our daily lives and help us make good decisions.
He will bless us with feelings of comfort and peace.
He will warn us of danger and strengthen us to resist temptation.
He will forgive our sins.
We will feel closer to Him.
We must learn to recognize His influence in our lives.
We must learn to listen to the still, small voice of the Spirit.
We can recognize when the Holy Ghost is teaching us the truth.
Our minds will be filled with inspiring and uplifting thoughts.
We will be enlightened, or given new knowledge.
Our hearts will have feelings of peace, joy, and love.
We will want to do good and be helpful to others.
These feelings are hard to describe but can be recognized as we experience them.
Scripture Study
2 Nephi 32:8–9
Enos 1:1–12
Alma 34:17–28
Moroni 10:3–5
Doctrine and Covenants 6:22–23
Doctrine and Covenants 8:2–3
Doctrine and Covenants 9:7–9
Doctrine and Covenants 19:28
1 Kings 19:11–12
Bible Dictionary, “
Prayer
”
Invitation
Will you kneel and pray daily as individuals and as a family?
Study the Scriptures
The scriptures are written records of God’s dealings with His children as recorded by prophets under the guidance of the Holy Ghost.
We show our faith by studying, believing, and obeying God’s revealed word.
We diligently search the scriptures to understand the truth.
We feast upon them because they open the door to revelation and show us what we need to do and become.
We search the scriptures to learn about Jesus Christ and His gospel.
Faith in Jesus Christ is a gift from God and comes through studying and living His word and His gospel.
The approved scriptures of the Church, also called the standard works, are the Holy Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price.
We should study these sacred books, especially the Book of Mormon, daily.
The Book of Mormon testifies of Jesus Christ and the truthfulness of His doctrine.
Scripture Study
1 Nephi 19:22–23
2 Nephi 9:50–51
2 Nephi 25:26
2 Nephi 29:1–13
2 Nephi 31:19–20
2 Nephi 32:3–5
Alma 32:28–30
John 5:39
John 20:31
2 Timothy 3:14–17
2 Peter 1:20–21
Invitation
Will you read the scriptures daily as individuals and as a family?
Keep the Sabbath Day Holy
Keeping the Sabbath day holy is a commandment.
God declared, “Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy” (
Exodus 20:8
).
Our Sabbath-day behavior is a reflection of our commitment to honor and worship God.
By keeping the Sabbath day holy, we show God our willingness to keep our covenants.
Each Sabbath day we go to church to worship Him.
While at church, members of the Church partake of the sacrament to remember Jesus Christ and His Atonement.
Partaking of the sacrament allows us to renew our covenants and show that we are willing to repent of our sins and mistakes.
On the Sabbath day, we enjoy a rest from our labors.
As we attend Church services and worship together, we strengthen each other.
We are renewed by our association with friends and family.
Our faith is strengthened as we study the scriptures and learn more about the restored gospel.
When a community or nation grows careless in its Sabbath activities, its religious life decays and all aspects of life are negatively affected.
The blessings associated with keeping the Sabbath day holy are withheld.
We should refrain from shopping on the Sabbath and participating in other commercial and sporting activities that make the Sabbath feel common.
Instead, we should set this holy day apart from activities of the world by entering into a spirit of worship, thanksgiving, service, and activities with family and friends that are appropriate to the Sabbath.
As Church members endeavor to make their Sabbath activities compatible with the intent and Spirit of the Lord, their lives will be filled with joy and peace.
When we keep the Sabbath day holy, it becomes “a delight” (see
Isaiah 58:13–14
), a time of spiritual refreshment (see
Exodus 31:17
), and a sign of our love for and devotion to our Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer.
Scripture Study
3 Nephi 18:1–25
Doctrine and Covenants 59:9–15
Exodus 20:8–11
Exodus 31:12–17
Isaiah 58:13–14
Sit with People You Are Teaching or Members at Church
When attending sacrament meetings or stake conferences, missionary companionships should sit with people they are teaching, recent converts, or members.
They should not sit in a group with other missionaries.
Invitations
Will you keep the Sabbath day holy?
Will you prepare yourself to partake of the sacrament worthily?
Baptismal Interview Questions That Apply
What do you understand of the Sabbath day, including partaking of the sacrament weekly and rendering service to others?
Are you willing to obey these standards (before and after your baptism)?
Baptism and Confirmation
The way we show our desire to follow in God’s way is through baptism and confirmation.
When we are baptized and confirmed, we enter into a covenant with God that we will take upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ and that we will always remember Him and keep His commandments.
We also promise to stand as witnesses of God at all times and to assist those in need (see
Mosiah 18:8–9
).
In return, God promises the constant companionship of the Holy Ghost, a remission of our sins, and being born again.
Invitations
Will you be baptized and confirmed?
Will you invite your friends and family to attend your baptismal service?
If possible, invite those you are teaching to a baptismal service and a sacrament meeting during which someone is confirmed.
Baptismal Interview Questions That Apply
All baptismal interview questions.
Invitation to Be Baptized
As directed by the Spirit, the invitation to be baptized and confirmed should be specific and direct: “Will you follow the example of Jesus Christ by being baptized by someone holding the priesthood authority of God?
We will be holding a baptismal service on [date].
Will you prepare yourself to be baptized on that date?”
Follow the Prophet
Truth is a knowledge of things as they really are, were, and will be.
It does not change with conditions or time.
Truth is the same in every age and culture.
God is the source of all truth.
We can have faith in Him because we know He will teach us only truth.
God wants all His children to know the truth.
Therefore, He reveals the truths necessary for salvation through prophets and apostles.
He reveals truth to us personally through the scriptures and personal revelation.
A prophet is called and chosen by God and is a righteous man with great faith.
The Lord reveals truth to him through the Holy Ghost.
He commands His prophet to teach truth to all people.
Those who believe God’s words as revealed through His prophet are blessed.
Christ’s Church is built on the foundation of apostles and prophets, who direct the Church by revelation.
The Lord called Joseph Smith as the first prophet and head of this last dispensation.
His successors who lead The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today are also prophets and apostles.
The President of the Church today is a living prophet.
We are to have faith in God’s chosen prophet, gain conviction of his divine calling, and follow his teachings.
We have frequent opportunities to sustain Church leaders publicly.
To
sustain
means to offer our support with thoughts, words, and actions.
We are to prepare ourselves so that when the prophets and apostles speak, the Holy Ghost can confirm the truths they teach, and we can then determine to follow the counsel they give us.
Those who listen to and follow the counsel of living prophets and apostles will not go astray.
The teachings of living prophets provide an anchor of eternal truth in a world of shifting values and help us avoid misery and sorrow.
The confusion and strife of the world will not overwhelm us, and we can enjoy the assurance of being in harmony with God’s will.
Scripture Study
Mosiah 15:11–12
Alma 13:1–16
3 Nephi 12:1–2
Doctrine and Covenants 1:37–38
Doctrine and Covenants 21:1–7
Doctrine and Covenants 136:37–38
John 15:16
Acts 10:34–44
Ephesians 2:19–20
Ephesians 4:11–14
Hebrews 5:4
Amos 3:7
Invitations
Will you come with us to meet the bishop of our local congregation?
Will you sustain and follow the counsel of Church leaders?
Baptismal Interview Questions That Apply
Do you believe that [current Church President] is a prophet of God?
What does that mean to you?
Keep the Ten Commandments
Heavenly Father gives us commandments so that we will know what to do and what to avoid in order to receive the blessings He wants to give us (such as joy, peace of conscience, and lasting happiness).
God revealed to Moses the Ten Commandments to guide His people:
“Thou shalt have no other gods before me” (
Exodus 20:3
).
Other “gods” can include possessions, power, or prominence.
“Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image” (
Exodus 20:4
).
“Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain” (
Exodus 20:7
).
“Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy” (
Exodus 20:8
).
“Honour thy father and thy mother” (
Exodus 20:12
).
“Thou shalt not kill” (
Exodus 20:13
).
“Thou shalt not commit adultery” (
Exodus 20:14
).
“Thou shalt not steal” (
Exodus 20:15
).
“Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour” (
Exodus 20:16
).
“Thou shalt not covet” (
Exodus 20:17
).
The Ten Commandments are still valid today.
They teach us to worship and show reverence for God.
They also teach us how to treat one another.
No Other Gods
People in many cultures own or pay respect to objects that remind them of Deity or ancestors.
Sometimes those objects, such as statues, religious emblems, or small shrines, might also be the focus of their worship.
Help those you teach understand that the Lord has commanded us not to worship idols.
Encourage them to remove from their home any object they worship or to which they pray.
Help them focus their faith and worship on their Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ.
Teach them that the restored gospel of Jesus Christ focuses on the living Christ.
In the restored gospel the Lord has taught us how to remember Him.
We remember Him through prayer, fasting, attending church, partaking of the sacrament, and attending the temple.
Your mission president will provide guidance in specific areas.
Scripture Study
Mosiah 13
Doctrine and Covenants 59:5–6
Matthew 22:36–40
Exodus 20:1–17
Deuteronomy 5:6–21
Invitation
Will you keep the Ten Commandments?
Live the Law of Chastity
God delights in chastity.
Chastity means limiting all sexual relations to one husband (for women) or one wife (for men).
It also means strict abstinence from sexual relations before marriage and complete fidelity and loyalty to one’s spouse after marriage.
Those who live the law of chastity enjoy the strength that comes from self-control.
They enjoy confidence and trust in their family relationships.
They can enjoy more fully the influence of the Holy Ghost in their lives.
Those who break this law are subject to a lasting sense of shame and guilt that burdens their lives.
Chastity requires faithfulness in thought and action.
We must keep our thoughts clean and be modest in our dress, speech, and actions.
We must avoid pornography in any form.
We should treat the God-given procreative power and our bodies as sacred.
Sexual relations are a God-given power to procreate and strengthen a married couple’s bond.
People who experience same-sex attraction should also keep the law of chastity and keep covenants with God.
Experiencing same-sex attraction or identifying as gay, lesbian, or bisexual is not a sin and does not prohibit one from participating in the Church, holding callings, or attending the temple.
Baptismal candidates are to live the law of chastity, which prohibits any sexual relations outside of a legal marriage between one man and one woman.
They are not to participate in abortions or homosexual relations.
Because God loves all His children and reaches out to them in love through Jesus Christ (see
Romans 5:8
), those who have committed sexual sin can repent, be forgiven, and live after the manner of happiness (see
2 Nephi 5:27
).
Couples Living Together
Men and women who are living together but are not married may not be baptized without first getting married or separated.
People in same-sex marriages or same-sex relationships, or those who are married to more than one person at a time, may not be baptized.
The invitation to live the law of chastity may pose very difficult challenges to the people you are teaching.
Be prayerful and sensitive to each person’s situation.
Use caution and follow the promptings of the Spirit when discussing sexual behavior to avoid compromising situations or accusations.
Seek counsel from your mission president, who will give you specific direction in each case.
Scripture Study
Jacob 2:28
Mosiah 13:22
Alma 39:3–5
3 Nephi 12:27–30
Doctrine and Covenants 42:22–24
Doctrine and Covenants 63:16
Matthew 5:27–28
Romans 1:26–32
Ephesians 5:3–5
Invitation
Will you live the law of chastity?
Baptismal Interview Questions That Apply
What do you understand of the law of chastity, which prohibits any sexual relationship outside the bonds of a legal marriage between one man and one woman?
Are you willing to obey this law (before and after your baptism)?
Have you ever participated in an abortion?
Have you ever committed a homosexual transgression? [Note: A person who answers yes to either of these questions must be interviewed by the mission president before being baptized.]
Obey the Word of Wisdom
The Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith a law of health called the Word of Wisdom.
This law teaches us what foods and substances we should and should not use to maintain the health of our bodies and to keep us free from evil influences.
The Lord promises blessings of health, strength, protection against evil, and greater receptiveness to spiritual truths.
Remember that our bodies are sacred.
We should treat them with respect and reverence.
The Word of Wisdom teaches that we are to eat healthy foods.
It teaches very specifically that we are to avoid harmful substances, including alcohol, tobacco, tea, and coffee.
We must also avoid harmful drugs in any form.
To be baptized and confirmed, those you teach must give up these substances.
People who obey the Word of Wisdom are more receptive to spiritual truths.
Your mission president will answer questions about whether other specific substances in your culture are included in the Word of Wisdom.
Overcoming Addictions
You can best help those who are struggling to overcome addiction by referring them to local priesthood leaders and by encouraging them to become familiar with the Church’s Addiction Recovery Program website.
You may also want to encourage local Church leaders to access resources on the Church’s Provident Living website.
The suggestions below are applied particularly to the Word of Wisdom but can be adapted for other addictions as well.
Reinforce people’s efforts to come unto Christ.
Help them see how their effort to recover and heal is being (or can be) strengthened through Jesus Christ and His Atonement.
Help people set goals about when and how they will live the Word of Wisdom.
Pray for them in your personal prayers and when you are with them.
Be positive and supportive—even if they relapse.
Continue teaching them the gospel.
Teach them how to use prayer and faith as sources of strength.
Help them attend church regularly and develop friendships with people who live the Word of Wisdom and have overcome the same addiction.
As appropriate, offer to give them priesthood blessings.
Encourage them to remove harmful substances from their home.
See
chapter 10
for more instruction on helping people overcome addictions.
Scripture Study
Doctrine and Covenants 89
1 Corinthians 3:16–17
1 Corinthians 6:19–20
Invitation
Will you obey the Word of Wisdom?
Baptismal Interview Questions That Apply
What do you understand about the Word of Wisdom?
Are you willing to obey the Word of Wisdom (before and after your baptism)?
Keep the Law of Tithing
One of the great blessings of membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the privilege of contributing to the growth of the kingdom of God through paying tithing.
Tithing is an ancient, divine law.
For example, the Old Testament prophet Abraham paid tithes of all he possessed (see
Alma 13:15
).
To those who pay tithing, the Lord promises that He will “open … the windows of heaven, and pour … out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it” (
Malachi 3:10
).
These blessings may be temporal or spiritual, but they will come to those who obey this divine law.
Tithing means one-tenth, and the Lord has commanded us to give a tenth of our increase, which is understood to mean income, that we may be blessed.
The law of tithing gives us the opportunity to help build His kingdom.
Our tithes are holy to the Lord, and we honor Him by paying tithing.
God promises to abundantly bless those who pay an honest tithe.
Those who do not pay tithing rob God (see
Malachi 3:8
).
They keep for themselves something that rightfully belongs to Him.
We should seek first the kingdom of God, and tithing is an important way of doing that.
Paying tithing is an expression of our faith.
It is an outward sign of our belief in God and His work.
Tithing funds are used to support the ongoing activities of the Church, such as building and maintaining temples and meetinghouses, carrying the gospel to all the world, conducting temple and family history service, and many other worldwide activities.
Tithing does not pay local Church leaders, who serve voluntarily without receiving payment of any kind.
Local Church leaders send the tithing received each week directly to Church headquarters.
A council comprised of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, and the Presiding Bishopric determines specific ways to use the sacred tithing funds.
Scripture Study
Tithing
Doctrine and Covenants 119
Doctrine and Covenants 120
Hebrews 7:1–2
Genesis 14:18–20
Leviticus 27:30–33
Malachi 3:7–12
Faith
3 Nephi 13:33
Ether 12:6
Invitation
Will you obey the law of tithing when you are baptized?
Baptismal Interview Questions That Apply
What do you understand of the law of tithing?
Are you willing to obey this law?
Observe the Law of the Fast
Great blessings are available to those who obey God’s commandment to fast.
Fasting means going without food and drink for a period of time.
Usually the first Sunday of each month is set aside as a special day to fast for two consecutive meals, pray, and bear testimony.
Fasting and prayer go together.
When we fast and pray with faith, we are more receptive to receiving answers to our prayers and blessings from the Lord.
He promises us that He will guide us continually.
We should fast and pray for specific purposes.
Fasting is private and spiritual, and we should not draw attention to the fact that we are fasting.
Pure religion includes caring for the poor.
We are to help them meet their physical and spiritual needs.
When we fast, we donate money to the Church for the care of the poor and the needy.
We call this a fast offering.
We give at least the amount of money we save by fasting for two meals.
However, we need not limit our contribution to the cost of two meals.
We are encouraged to be as generous as our means allow.
By caring for the poor, we help fulfill our baptismal covenant and retain a remission of our sins.
Scripture Study
Fasting
Omni 1:26
Alma 5:45–46
Alma 6:6
Alma 17:2–3
Moroni 6:5
Doctrine and Covenants 88:76
Doctrine and Covenants 59:12–16
Matthew 6:1–4, 16–18
Isaiah 58:6–11
Caring for the Poor
Mosiah 4:16–27
Mosiah 18:8–10
Alma 4:12–13
Matthew 25:34–46
James 1:27
Isaiah 58:3–12
Invitations
Will you fast and pray on the next fast Sunday for some special need?
Will you donate a generous fast offering (after you are baptized)?
How to Donate Tithes and Offerings
Tithes and offerings are paid voluntarily and privately.
Members are encouraged to pay tithes as they receive their income.
However, members who wish to pay annually may do so.
Members may contribute fast-offering funds directly to a member of the bishopric or to an Aaronic Priesthood holder designated to receive fast-offering donations.
Members make donations by completing a donation slip, which is obtained from the bishopric. (Tithing donations, as opposed to fast offerings, should be given only to a member of the bishopric.) The member keeps the yellow copy and seals the white copy and the donation in an envelope that is provided.
The envelope is given to a member of the bishopric.
Members may also make donations online using their private Church account.
These donations are considered sacred and belong to the Lord.
A member of the bishopric and a clerk keep a careful, confidential accounting of all donations.
Members attend tithing settlement with the bishop at the end of each year to declare their tithing faithfulness.
At this private meeting, members receive a year-end report of all their donations.
All financial information is kept strictly confidential.
Teach How to Donate Tithes and Offerings
Show a tithing donation form and explain how to use it.
After converts are baptized, you may need to help them fill out the form or show them how to make a donation online.
Obey and Honor the Law
Latter-day Saints everywhere believe in obeying the laws of the country in which they live.
Members of the Church are counseled to be good citizens, to participate in civil government and the political process, and to render community service.
They do so, however, as concerned citizens, not as representatives of the Church.
Scripture Study
Doctrine and Covenants 58:21
Doctrine and Covenants 98:5
Doctrine and Covenants 130:20–21
Doctrine and Covenants 134
Articles of Faith 1:12
Invitation
Will you obey the laws of the country in which you reside?
Baptismal Interview Questions That Apply
Have you ever committed a serious crime?
If so, are you now on probation or parole? [Note: A person who answers yes to either of these questions must be interviewed by the mission president before being baptized.]
Activity
For each commandment in this lesson, list the scriptural promises the Lord makes to those who keep the commandment.
Record in your study journal the promises that have been realized in your life.
Notes
Lesson 5
Laws and Ordinances
Image
Christ holding lamb
© 1998 Del Parson.
Do not copy.
Prepare to Teach
This lesson works much like
lesson 4
.
The approach you take should be determined by the needs, interests, and situations of the people you are teaching and direction from the Spirit.
Constantly think and pray about how to help others live the gospel.
Be mindful of the questions and level of understanding of those you teach.
Ideas include:
Teaching one or more of the laws and ordinances from this lesson while reviewing “
The Message of the Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
,” “
The Plan of Salvation
,” and “
The Gospel of Jesus Christ
” lessons.
For example, while teaching the message of the Restoration you may want to teach about priesthood and missionary work; while teaching the plan of salvation you may teach about eternal marriage, temples and family history service, and teaching and learning in the Church.
While teaching the gospel of Jesus Christ you may want to teach about the strait and narrow way and serving in the Church.
Teaching two or three of the laws and ordinances as a single lesson.
Teaching a single law or ordinance as a lesson.
Work with members to help people you are teaching accept and begin living these laws and ordinances.
Help people recognize that by keeping God’s laws, they will retain a remission of their sins and stay on the pathway to exaltation.
They will experience greater peace and joy.
They will find answers to life’s questions and security in the knowledge that they belong to the true Church of Jesus Christ.
The laws and ordinances serve as directions for living joyfully, with faith in Jesus Christ and a firm hope of receiving exaltation with our Father in Heaven.
Learn about the Laws, Ordinances, and Commitments
As you study “Laws and Ordinances,” it is helpful to follow the pattern below.
Study the section that describes the doctrine, and write a simple lesson plan with three to five main points.
Teach a two- or three-minute version to your companion.
Practice how you will extend each invitation and how you will resolve concerns.
Discuss effective ways to follow up on each commitment that people you are teaching have accepted.
Priesthood and Organizations
Priesthood is the power and authority given to man to act in God’s name for the salvation of His children.
Priesthood power blesses all of us.
Through the priesthood, women and men receive the ordinances of salvation, as well as the blessings of healing, comfort, and counsel.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is led by Jesus Christ through apostles and prophets.
These are righteous men who are called of God and given the priesthood.
Anciently Christ ordained His Apostles and gave them the priesthood.
That authority was lost when the people rejected the gospel and killed Christ and the Apostles.
Priesthood authority was restored in 1829 when John the Baptist appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery.
He laid his hands on their heads and conferred on them the Aaronic Priesthood (see
Doctrine and Covenants 13
).
A short time later Peter, James, and John of the original Twelve Apostles laid their hands on Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood, which Peter, James, and John had received from Jesus Christ (see
Doctrine and Covenants 27:12–13
).
A man can receive priesthood authority only by proper ordination by the laying on of hands by one who has the authority.
A man who receives the priesthood is given a marvelous opportunity.
He enters a covenant to fulfill sacred duties, serve others, and help build up the Church.
He must have a desire to serve God and must be ordained to this power (see
Doctrine and Covenants 4:3
;
63:57
).
It is also necessary for priesthood holders to perform sacred ordinances, such as baptism and confirmation.
When priesthood authority is used worthily, the power of God is manifest.
Priesthood power can be used only in righteousness, love, and patience.
How does this apply to women?
President Dallin H.
Oaks taught that women who are set apart as missionaries, officers, or teachers in the Church are “given priesthood authority to perform a priesthood function” (“
The Keys and Authority of the Priesthood
,”
Ensign
or
Liahona,
May 2014, 51).
All priesthood comes from God.
There are two priesthoods in the Church: the Aaronic Priesthood and the Melchizedek Priesthood.
The Aaronic Priesthood administers ordinances such as baptism and the sacrament.
Worthy males of the appropriate age receive the Aaronic Priesthood soon after baptism and confirmation.
Worthy adult males will eventually receive the Melchizedek, or higher, Priesthood.
Members of the Church receive many spiritual and temporal blessings through the power of this priesthood.
Worthy Melchizedek Priesthood holders can confer the gift of the Holy Ghost, ordain others to the priesthood as assigned, anoint the sick with consecrated oil, and give blessings of healing and comfort.
Worthy husbands and fathers who hold the Melchizedek Priesthood can give their spouses, children, and other family members special blessings.
Ministering brothers care for individuals and families in the households of Church members.
Ministering sisters care for other women in the Church.
Bishops and stake presidents are judges in the Church.
They have the authority to help Saints who have sinned to repent and enjoy the full blessings of Church membership.
They interview people to ensure their worthiness to enter the temple.
In an address to the Relief Society, President Joseph Fielding Smith taught: “While the sisters have not been given the Priesthood, it has not been conferred upon them, that does not mean that the Lord has not given unto them authority. … A [man] may have authority given to him, or a sister to her, to do certain things in the Church that are binding and absolutely necessary for our salvation, such as the work that our sisters do in the House
of the Lord.
They have authority given unto them to do some great and wonderful things, sacred unto the Lord, and binding just as thoroughly as are the blessings that are given by the men who hold the Priesthood” (Joseph Fielding Smith, “Relief Society—an Aid to the Priesthood,”
Relief Society Magazine,
Jan.
1959, 4).
Church organizations are organized by priesthood authority to assist in strengthening members.
Both men and women are a great resource in missionary work as they assist in finding, teaching, and fellowshipping new converts.
The Relief Society, which includes women ages 18 and over, reaches out in service to families, individuals, and the community.
Young women ages 11 to 18 are members of the Young Women program.
Boys of similar ages participate in the Young Men program.
All children ages 3 to 11 are part of the Primary organization.
All members age 11 and older are enrolled in Sunday School classes.
Scripture Study
Mosiah 18:17
Alma 13:1–19
Doctrine and Covenants 20:38–65
Doctrine and Covenants 84:19–20
Doctrine and Covenants 107
Doctrine and Covenants 121:34–46
Luke 9:1–6
John 15:16
James 5:14–15
Invitations
Will you prepare to receive the Aaronic Priesthood? (For eligible and worthy males of the appropriate age)
Will you prepare to receive the Melchizedek Priesthood? (For eligible and worthy adult males)
Will you participate actively in the appropriate auxiliary organizations?
Missionary Work
Members who share the gospel experience joy and have the Spirit of the Lord more abundantly.
As we share the gospel, we appreciate how precious and meaningful it is to us, and we feel a greater love for God and others.
The Lord commanded His followers to preach the gospel in all the world, giving every person the opportunity to accept or reject it.
When people are baptized, they make a covenant to always stand as witnesses of God.
They are commanded to share the gospel with those who have not yet received it.
As they live the gospel faithfully, they will set an example, showing their family members and friends the great blessings that come from living the gospel.
They should also take advantage of opportunities to answer questions, share printed materials or digital media, and invite others to learn more about the message of the restored gospel.
Members should pray for those who are not members of the Church.
They should pray for missionary opportunities—to serve those who are not of our faith and share what they believe.
The Lord promises to help members know what to say and do as they share the gospel.
Scripture Study
Jacob 5:70–75
Mosiah 28:3
Doctrine and Covenants 18:10–16
Doctrine and Covenants 19:29
Doctrine and Covenants 33:8–11
Doctrine and Covenants 38:40–42
Doctrine and Covenants 84:74–76, 88
Doctrine and Covenants 88:81
Doctrine and Covenants 100:5–8
Invitations
Will you prepare to invite friends and relatives who do not belong to the Church to meet with the missionaries to be taught the gospel?
Will you pray for the missionaries and for opportunities to share the gospel?
Will you prepare to serve a mission?
Eternal Marriage
The basic unit of the Church is the family.
Within the family, people experience many of life’s greatest joys and sorrows.
Marriage between a man and a woman is ordained of God and is central to God’s eternal plan for the salvation of His children.
The means by which mortal life is created is divinely appointed and is safeguarded by marriage.
The divine plan of happiness enables family relationships to endure beyond the grave.
Marriage, however, can be eternal only when authorized priesthood holders perform the sealing ordinance in sacred temples and when husbands and wives who have been sealed together keep the covenants they have made.
Husbands and wives are to love each other.
As they keep the commandments and live gospel principles, they are to honor their marital vows with complete fidelity (see “
The Family: A Proclamation to the World
,”
Ensign
or
Liahona,
May 2017, 145; see also
Doctrine and Covenants 42:22
).
Happiness in family life is most likely to be achieved when founded upon the teachings of Jesus Christ and when parents make their family their highest priority. “By divine design, fathers are to preside over their families in love and righteousness and are responsible to provide the necessities of life and protection for their families.
Mothers are primarily responsible for the nurture of their children.
In these sacred responsibilities, fathers and mothers are obligated to help one another as equal partners” (“
The Family: A Proclamation to the World
,” 145).
Together, parents are to teach their children the gospel of Jesus Christ and help them live it.
Satan is making a concentrated attack on families.
Years ago Church leaders set aside one evening a week as a time for home evening.
Parents should use this time to teach their children the gospel, strengthen their relationships with them, and have fun together.
Other ways of strengthening the family include daily family prayer and scripture study, worshipping at church as a family, doing family history, and serving others.
Heaven is a continuation of the ideal family.
Through priesthood ordinances and righteous living, we can live as families in God’s presence eternally.
Scripture Study
Marriage
Doctrine and Covenants 42:22
Doctrine and Covenants 49:15
Doctrine and Covenants 131:1–4
Doctrine and Covenants 132:7
Genesis 2:24
Ephesians 5:25
“
The Family: A Proclamation to the World
”
Family
Mosiah 4:14–15
3 Nephi 18:21
Doctrine and Covenants 130:2
1 Timothy 5:8
“
The Family: A Proclamation to the World
”
Teach Children
Alma 56:47
Alma 57:21
Moses 6:55–62
Doctrine and Covenants 68:25–30
Ephesians 6:4
Proverbs 22:6
Invitations
Will you hold weekly home evening, daily family prayer, daily family scripture study, and other family activities?
Will you prepare to enter the temple to (1) receive your endowment? (2) be married for time and eternity or, if married, be sealed for eternity as husband and wife?
and (3) have your children sealed to you?
Will you worship on the Sabbath as a family?
Will you serve others?
Temples and Family History
God has commanded His people to build temples.
In the temple we make sacred covenants and are endowed with, or are given, a gift of power and knowledge from on high.
This power helps us in our daily lives and enables us to build God’s kingdom.
In the temple we can also be married for time and eternity, thus making it possible for families to be together forever in God’s presence.
After at least one year of membership, worthy adults may be eligible to receive from their bishop a recommend to receive their own endowment.
After receiving their endowments, married couples may be sealed or married for eternity.
The Savior loves all people and desires their salvation.
Yet millions of people have died without having any opportunity to hear the message of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ or receive saving ordinances.
Through His loving grace and mercy the Lord makes salvation possible for everyone who did not have the opportunity to receive, understand, and obey the gospel during their mortal lives.
The gospel is preached to these deceased people in the spirit world.
Members of the Church on earth perform the saving ordinances in behalf of their deceased ancestors and others.
Deceased persons living in the spirit world have the opportunity to accept or reject the gospel and the ordinances performed in their behalf.
For this reason, Church members search for information about their ancestors.
They can then add the information they find to the Church’s database at FamilySearch.org.
A person can do so either on their own or with the help of a temple and family history consultant.
The Church’s database then allows Church members to share or print out and take to the temple the names of deceased relatives who need to have saving ordinances performed on their behalf in sacred temples.
This is an important aspect of doing family history.
Worthy members of the appropriate age, including new members, are eligible to receive from their bishop a limited-use recommend to participate in performing baptisms and confirmations for these deceased ancestors.
Family History
Working with the ward mission leader, introduce those you are teaching and new converts to another ward member who is familiar with temple and family history service (such as a temple and family history consultant).
They can help those people identify their deceased relatives who are in need of temple ordinances.
Where possible, go with new members to the temple.
Participate with them in performing temple ordinances.
Scripture Study
Doctrine and Covenants 43:16
Doctrine and Covenants 95:8–9
Doctrine and Covenants 124:22–42
Doctrine and Covenants 128
Doctrine and Covenants 131
Doctrine and Covenants 132
Doctrine and Covenants 138
1 Corinthians 15:29
1 Peter 3:18–21
Psalm 65:4
Invitations
Will you prepare to receive temple ordinances? (Soon after baptism and confirmation, worthy members of the appropriate age can receive a recommend to go to the temple and participate in baptisms for the dead.)
Will you participate in family history work and submit the names of deceased ancestors to receive temple ordinances?
Service
One of the great blessings of membership in the Church is the opportunity to serve.
When we give loving service to others, we are serving God.
When we are baptized, we covenant to give such service (see
Mosiah 18:8–10
).
We are to become aware of others’ physical and spiritual needs.
We then give of our time, talents, and means to help meet those needs.
We follow the example of the Savior, who came to serve others.
We are to do what Jesus did and become like Him.
Soon after baptism new members receive from priesthood leaders the blessing of a responsibility to help in the Church.
This is referred to as a calling.
All of the work in the Church is voluntary.
No one is paid for such service.
When we accept callings, we are sustained publicly in a Church meeting so that other members can acknowledge our calling and provide support.
We are also set apart by a priesthood leader and given special blessings to help us fulfill our callings.
The Church needs the talents and abilities of every member to fill a wide variety of callings.
All callings are important and help build God’s kingdom.
We are to accept such callings and work diligently to learn and fulfill our duties.
As we do so, we grow in faith, develop new talents and a greater ability to serve, and receive numerous other blessings.
Sisters and priesthood holders may be given assignments to minister to others.
As members minister, they determine through communication and inspiration the frequency and type of contact they have with those to whom they give care.
Ministering brothers care for individuals and families in households.
Ministering sisters represent the Relief Society by caring for each adult sister as assigned.
Some opportunities to care for those in need come through Church callings.
Other opportunities are present in members’ homes, neighborhoods, and communities, such as those coordinated by JustServe (where it is approved).
Members can also help the poor
and needy of all faiths throughout the world by supporting the Church’s humanitarian efforts, by participating in disaster response, and by giving individual efforts to serve others in need.
Scripture Study
Charity
Moroni 7:43–48
Doctrine and Covenants 88:125
Matthew 22:36–40
1 Corinthians 13:1–8
Care for the Poor
Mosiah 4:26
Alma 34:28–29
Doctrine and Covenants 52:40
Matthew 25:40
We Are to Serve
Mosiah 2:17
Mosiah 18:8–10
Doctrine and Covenants 42:29
Doctrine and Covenants 107:99–100
Invitations
Will you accept a calling or an assignment if it is extended to you (including an assignment as a ministering brother or ministering sister)?
Will you support others in their callings?
Teaching and Learning in the Church
The Church is organized to perfect and bless the lives of the members.
It gives us opportunities to teach one another the gospel, fellowship and serve one another, and support one another in our quest for salvation.
In the family and through the Church, each member is taught the doctrine of the gospel.
When members are called to teaching assignments, they are provided materials and help to enable them to succeed.
Scripture Study
Doctrine and Covenants 88:77–79
Ephesians 4:11–14
Invitation
Will you attend church?
Endure to the End
As we continue to live the gospel, we grow closer to our Heavenly Father.
We enjoy and appreciate more the Atonement of the Savior.
Our families are drawn closer together.
We experience greater feelings of the love, joy, and peace that come from following the Savior and applying His Atonement.
Our hearts are changed, and we find security in living the restored gospel.
As we continue to exercise faith in Christ, repent, and renew our covenants, we enjoy continued guidance from the Holy Ghost.
If we endure to the end of our lives in being true to our covenants, we will receive exaltation.
President Russell M.
Nelson taught: “Keep on the covenant path. … Your commitment to follow the Savior by making covenants with Him and then keeping those covenants will open the door to every spiritual privilege and blessing available to men, women, and children everywhere. … The end for which each of us strives is to be endowed with a power in a house of the Lord, sealed as families—faithful to the covenants made in a temple that qualify us for the greatest gift of God, that of eternal life” (live telecast from the annex of the Salt Lake Temple, Jan.
16, 2018).
A few members do not endure or remain fully active.
However, enduring to the end is a personal responsibility.
We “work out [our] own salvation” (
Philippians 2:12
), and we serve and love those whose faith has grown weak through inactivity.
Scripture Study
2 Nephi 31:20–21
Moroni 6:4
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
Articles of Faith 1:3
John 14:15, 21
Ephesians 4:11–14
Philippians 2:12
Invitation
Will you continue to live the gospel by keeping the baptismal covenant throughout your life?
4
How Do I Recognize and Understand the Spirit?
Image
Lehi finds the liahona
Consider This
Why do I need to receive personal revelation?
Who is the Holy Ghost and how does He work?
Why must I pray in faith?
What is the role of the Spirit in missionary work?
How can I recognize the promptings of the Spirit?
Personal Revelation
Joseph Smith said, “Salvation cannot come without revelation; it is in vain for anyone to minister without it” (Discourse, between circa 26 June and circa 4 August 1839-A, as reported by Willard Richards, Church History Library, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City).
You will succeed in your work as you learn to receive and follow personal revelation.
Joseph Smith also taught that revelation is vital for your daily work: “This is the principle on which the government of heaven is conducted—by revelation adapted to the circumstances in which the children of the kingdom are placed” (History, 1838–1856, volume D-1 [1 August 1842–1 July 1843, Church History Library, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City]).
God loves you and all His children.
He is anxious to support you in your practical and specific challenges.
You have been promised inspiration to know what to do and have been given the power to do it (see
Doctrine and Covenants 43:15–16
).
He will help you as you try to recognize and understand the Spirit through diligent scripture study.
He will guide you to people who will receive the message of the Restoration.
He will give you power to deliver the message and to testify of Christ and His gospel.
He will shower His blessings upon you through the gift of the Holy Ghost.
He asks that you remain worthy of this gift and that you ask, seek, and knock (see
Doctrine and Covenants 4:7
;
Matthew 7:7–8
).
We live in the day prophesied by Book of Mormon prophets—a day when people will “contend one with another, and they shall teach with their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance” (
2 Nephi 28:4
; see also
3 Nephi 29:6
;
Mormon 9:7–8
).
Yet many people also yearn for spiritual things.
As you learn to receive personal revelation, you will teach with power and authority (see
Alma 17:3
) because the Holy Ghost gives you power to speak (see
1 Nephi 10:22
).
You need to seek and receive personal revelation through the Holy Ghost as you help people become baptized and confirmed.
Have faith that you will receive personal revelation to guide you from day to day.
The Holy Ghost will help you in every aspect of your work.
Activity: Personal Study
In Moroni’s concluding testimony, he wrote “a few words by way of exhortation” (
Moroni 10:2
).
Read
Moroni 10
and write in your own words what Moroni exhorts the reader of the Book of Mormon to do. (
Exhort
means to encourage strongly or urge someone to do something.)
The Light of Christ
A person is capable of receiving spiritual guidance before being baptized and confirmed.
This spiritual influence begins with the Light of Christ, which “is given to every man, that he may know good from evil” (
Moroni 7:16
; see also
verses 14–19
).
“The light of Christ is just what the words imply: enlightenment, knowledge, and an uplifting, ennobling, persevering influence that comes upon mankind because of Jesus Christ. …
“The light of Christ should not be confused with the personage of the Holy Ghost, for the light of Christ is not a personage at all.
Its influence is preliminary to and preparatory to one’s receiving the Holy Ghost.
The light of Christ will lead the honest soul who ‘hearkeneth to the voice’ to find the true gospel and the true Church and thereby receive the Holy Ghost” (Bible Dictionary, “
Light of Christ
”; see also
Doctrine and Covenants 84:46–47
).
President Boyd K.
Packer said: “It is important for a … missionary … to know that the Holy Ghost can work through the Light of Christ.
A teacher of gospel truths is not planting something foreign or even new into an adult or a child.
Rather, the missionary or teacher is making contact with the Spirit of Christ already there.
The gospel will have a familiar ‘ring’ to them” (“The Light of Christ” [address given at the seminar for new mission presidents, June 22, 2004], 2, Church History Library, Salt Lake City).
The Holy Ghost
The personage of the Holy Ghost
.
The Holy Ghost is the third member of the Godhead.
He is a personage of spirit and does not have a body of flesh and bones (see
Doctrine and Covenants 130:22
).
He is the Comforter, who the Savior promised would teach His followers all things and bring to their remembrance all things that He had taught them (see
John 14:26
).
The power of the Holy Ghost.
The witness that comes to sincere seekers of truth before baptism comes through the power of the Holy Ghost. “The power [of the Holy Ghost] can come upon one before baptism and is the convincing witness that the gospel is true.
By the power of the Holy Ghost a person receives a testimony of Jesus Christ and of His work and the work of His servants upon the earth” (Bible Dictionary, “
Holy Ghost
”).
The Holy Ghost testifies of truth.
All people can know the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon through the power of the Holy Ghost. “By the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things” (
Moroni 10:5
).
The gift of the Holy Ghost
.
People who receive a witness but have not been baptized and confirmed do not yet have the promise of the constant companionship of the Holy Ghost.
Joseph Smith said: “There is a difference between the Holy Ghost and the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Cornelius received the Holy Ghost before he was baptized, which was the convincing power of God unto him of the truth of the Gospel, but he could not receive the gift of the Holy Ghost until after he was baptized.
Had he not taken this sign or ordinance upon him, the Holy Ghost which convinced him of the truth of God, would have left him” (“Sabbath Scene in Nauvoo,”
Times and Seasons,
Apr.
15, 1842, 752).
“The gift of the Holy Ghost comes after one repents and becomes worthy. … The Holy Ghost bears witness of the truth and impresses upon the soul the reality of God the Father and the Son Jesus Christ so deeply that no earthly power or authority can separate him from that knowledge.”
—President James E.
Faust
“
The Gift of the Holy Ghost—a Sure Compass
,”
Ensign,
Apr.
1996, 4
“The gift [of the Holy Ghost] can come only after proper and authorized baptism, and is conferred by the laying on of hands. … The gift of the Holy Ghost is the right to have, whenever one is worthy, the companionship of the Holy Ghost” (Bible Dictionary, “
Holy Ghost
”).
As a member of the Church, you have received the gift of the Holy Ghost by priesthood authority.
This gift entitles you to the constant companionship of the Holy Ghost as you remain worthy of it.
Pray for the Spirit’s guidance, and valiantly follow the promptings you receive.
The Holy Spirit of Promise
.
The Holy Ghost is also referred to as the Holy Spirit of Promise (see
Doctrine and Covenants 88:3
).
To be sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise means that the Holy Ghost confirms that righteous acts, ordinances, and covenants are acceptable to God.
The Holy Spirit of Promise testifies to the Father that the saving ordinances have been performed properly and that the covenants associated with them have been kept.
Those who are sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise receive all that the Father has (see
Doctrine and Covenants 76:51–60
;
Ephesians 1:13–14
).
All covenants and performances must be sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise if they are to be valid after this life (see
Doctrine and Covenants 132:7, 18–19, 26
).
Breaking covenants may remove the sealing.
Gifts of the Spirit
.
The gifts of the Spirit are special spiritual blessings that the Lord gives to worthy individuals for their own benefit and for their use in blessing others.
For example, missionaries who must learn a new language may receive the gift of tongues to give them divine help in learning a language.
Several gifts of the Spirit are described in
Moroni 10:8–18
;
Doctrine and Covenants 46:11–33
; and
1 Corinthians 12:1–12
.
These are only some examples of the many gifts of the Spirit.
The Lord may bless you in other ways depending on your faithfulness, your needs, and the needs of those you serve.
You should desire spiritual gifts and earnestly seek for them (see
Doctrine and Covenants 46:8
;
1 Corinthians 12:31
;
14:1, 12
).
These gifts come by prayer, faith, and works, according to God’s will (see
Doctrine and Covenants 63:9–12
;
84:64–73
).
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Read the Bible Dictionary, “
Holy Ghost
,” “
Light of Christ
,” and “
Spirit
.”
Write a description of the nature and role of the Holy Ghost.
Read
Acts 4:23–33
.
How did Peter and John seek spiritual gifts?
How did the Lord answer their prayers?
What can you learn from this experience about your own work?
The Power of the Spirit in Conversion
The power of the Holy Ghost is central to conversion.
Strive to understand the doctrine and also the experience of conversion.
President Boyd K.
Packer explained the central role of the Spirit in conversion:
“When conversion takes place, it is through the power of the Spirit.
In order to succeed in missionary work, these three things must occur:
“We must understand what [a person] must feel in order to receive conversion.
“We must understand how a missionary must feel in order to teach with the converting power of the Spirit.
“And then we must understand how a member must feel to succeed in participating in the conversion experience” (mission presidents’ conference, Apr.
3, 1985).
Image
baptism
The better you understand how the people you teach, missionaries, and members feel when they receive the witness of the Spirit, the better you will understand your own role, which is to:
Be edified and have your mind enlightened as you search the scriptures and teach the doctrine.
Create a climate when you teach in which the Holy Ghost can bear witness.
You do this by teaching and testifying of the message of the Restoration.
Teach as directed by the Spirit, and testify that you know by the power of the Holy Ghost that what you teach is true.
Follow the guidance of the Spirit in adapting the message to each person’s needs.
Invite people to act.
Their faith will grow as they repent, obey the commandments, and make and keep covenants.
President M. Russell Ballard spoke of the power of the Spirit: “True conversion comes through the power of the Spirit.
When the Spirit touches the heart, hearts are changed.
When individuals … feel the Spirit working with them, or when they see the evidence of the Lord’s love and mercy in their lives, they are edified and strengthened spiritually and their faith in Him increases.
These experiences with the Spirit follow naturally when a person is willing to experiment upon the word.
This is how we come to
feel
the gospel is true” (“
Now Is the Time
,”
Ensign,
Nov.
2000, 75).
The Holy Ghost works in the hearts of people to bring about these changes.
As people choose to keep commitments, they will feel the power of the Holy Ghost more strongly and will develop the faith to obey Christ.
Thus, you should help the people you work with grow in faith by inviting them to repent and to make and keep commitments.
Activity: Personal Study
Read one or two of the following passages, and ponder what a person must feel to be converted.
Record your feelings and impressions in your study journal.
Discuss your ideas with other missionaries and members.
2 Nephi 4:16–35
;
Enos 1
;
Mosiah 4–5
;
18:7–14
;
27–28
;
Alma 5
;
17–22
;
32
;
36
;
38
Read one or two of the following passages and ponder what you as a missionary and as a member must feel to teach with converting power.
Record your feelings and impressions in your study journal.
Discuss your ideas with other missionaries and members.
1 Nephi 8:11–12
;
Mosiah 28:1–4
;
Alma 26
;
29
;
31:26–38
;
32
;
Moroni 7:43–48
;
Doctrine and Covenants 4
;
18:10–16
;
50:21–22
Scripture Study
What do these scriptures teach about the power of the Spirit in your work?
2 Nephi 33:1–2
Doctrine and Covenants 42:11–17
Doctrine and Covenants 50:13–22
Acts 2:37–38
1 Corinthians 2:11–14
Bible Dictionary, “
Conversion
”
What can you do to enjoy the power of the Spirit in your work?
Alma 32:27–28
Doctrine and Covenants 42:14
John 7:17
Why is it important to teach what you know and believe?
Alma 5:43–47
Doctrine and Covenants 52:9
Doctrine and Covenants 80:4
Pray with Faith
You can teach in the Lord’s way only by the power of the Spirit, and you receive the Spirit through the prayer of faith.
The Lord said, “And the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach” (
Doctrine and Covenants 42:14
).
As you pray for help in your teaching, the power of the Holy Ghost will carry your teachings “unto the hearts of the children of men” (
2 Nephi 33:1
).
President Gordon B.
Hinckley illustrated this principle by relating an experience from his mission:
“I always remember two young men who served in my mission.
One was a superstar.
He was educated.
He was bright.
He was quick.
He was a little arrogant.
We had another who was a sign painter.
He came from a sign shop with very little education, but he knew his inadequacies and he relied on the Lord.
When he prayed, you knew he was talking with the Lord.
It wasn’t a rote thing, it was a conversation and that young man accomplished wonders while the other young man went through the motions.
The power that was in the one and the absence of power in the other was so apparent.
Call upon the Lord.
He has extended the invitation, and He will answer” (
Teachings of Gordon B.
Hinckley
[1997], 469).
Image
family praying
Strive to pray sincerely, with real intent, and with “all the energy of heart” (
Moroni 7:48
).
Effective prayer requires great effort (see
Moroni 10:3–4
;
Doctrine and Covenants 8:10
;
9:7
).
Give serious thought to your attitude and to the words you use.
Consider the following when you pray:
Use the language of prayer, which shows that you love and respect your Heavenly Father.
Use proper and respectful language in whatever language you speak.
For example, in English use scriptural pronouns such as
Thee, Thou, Thy,
and
Thine.
Always express gratitude for your blessings.
A conscious effort to be grateful will help you recognize how merciful the Lord has been in your life.
Pray specifically for the guidance and help of the Holy Ghost.
Show that you value this blessing by being sensitive to and aware of spiritual promptings.
Then courageously follow those promptings.
Pray with love and charity.
Pray for people by name.
Ask for inspiration to help you understand and meet their needs.
Pray for the welfare of those you are teaching, new converts, and returning members.
Pray for the members and priesthood and auxiliary leaders in your area.
Pray for your family at home.
Pray for your companion, other missionaries, and your mission president.
Pray to know how you can help others, and then be willing to sacrifice in their behalf.
Pray that you will be shown where to go and what to do.
Pray that you will be led to those who are prepared to receive the message of the Restoration.
Pray that you will recognize them.
Recognize that your Heavenly Father knows what you need better than you do.
Rely on the Spirit to know what to pray for (see
3 Nephi 19:24
;
Doctrine and Covenants 46:28, 30
).
In your prayers at night, give the Lord an accounting of your day’s activities.
Then review with Him your plan for the next day.
Listen for the promptings of the Spirit.
Pray to overcome temptation.
Yielding to temptation interferes with the Spirit.
Pray and, when appropriate, fast for special blessings.
Pray about and ponder the scriptures.
The scriptures open the window to revelation.
Believe that God will answer your prayers.
Recognize that God’s thoughts are not your thoughts (see
Isaiah 55:8–9
), and trust God to answer your prayers in His own way and in His own time.
“Every morning … , missionaries should get on their knees and plead with the Lord to loosen their tongues and speak through them to the blessing of those they will be teaching.
If they will do this, a new light will come into their lives.
There will be greater enthusiasm for the work.
They will come to know that in a very real sense, they are servants of the Lord speaking in His behalf.
They will find a different response from those they teach.
As they do so by the Spirit, [the people they are teaching] will respond under the influence of the same Spirit.”
—President Gordon B.
Hinckley
“Missionary Service,”
First Worldwide Leadership Training Meeting,
Jan.
11, 2003, 20
Activity: Personal Study
Ponder the following statements concerning sincere prayer:
“The trouble with most of our prayers is that we give them as if we were picking up the telephone and ordering groceries—we place our order and hang up.
We need to meditate, contemplate, think of what we are praying about and for and then speak to the Lord as one man speaketh to another” (
Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Gordon B.
Hinckley
[2016],
114
).
“If prayer is only a spasmodic cry at the time of crisis, then it is utterly selfish, and we come to think of God as a repairman or a service agency to help us only in our emergencies.
We should remember the Most High day and night—always—not only at times when all other assistance has failed and we desperately need help” (
Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Howard W.
Hunter
[2015],
80
).
Using the following scale, privately evaluate your prayers.
In your study journal, write answers to questions like these: Where would you place yourself on this scale?
Where would you like to be on this scale?
How are you going to change?
Image
prayer scale
Scripture Study
Why must you pray for the Spirit?
2 Nephi 32:8–9
Doctrine and Covenants 42:14
Doctrine and Covenants 50:13–22
What should you pray for?
Alma 6:6
Alma 13:28
Alma 34:17–27
Alma 37:36–37
3 Nephi 18:20
3 Nephi 19:9
Doctrine and Covenants 50:29–30
Bible Dictionary, “
Prayer
”
Learn to Recognize the Promptings of the Spirit
The Spirit is always available to guide and direct you.
However, the Spirit speaks quietly, through your feelings as well as your mind.
One great challenge for you and those you work with is to recognize the quiet, subtle promptings of the Holy Ghost.
President Boyd K.
Packer taught: “The voice of the Spirit is described in the scripture as being neither ‘loud’ nor ‘harsh.’ It is ‘not a voice of thunder, neither … voice of a great tumultuous noise.’ But rather, ‘a still voice of perfect mildness, as if it had been a whisper,’ and it can ‘pierce even to the very soul’ and ‘cause [the heart] to burn.’ (
3 Ne.
11:3
;
Hel.
5:30
;
Doctrine and Covenants 85:6–7
.) Remember, Elijah found the voice of the Lord was not in the wind, nor in the earthquake, nor in the fire, but was a ‘still small voice.’ (
1 Kgs.
19:12
.)
“The Spirit does not get our attention by shouting or shaking us with a heavy hand.
Rather it whispers.
It caresses so gently that if we are preoccupied we may not feel it at all. …
“Occasionally it will press just firmly enough for us to pay heed.
But most of the time, if we do not heed the gentle feeling, the Spirit will withdraw and wait until we come seeking and listening and say in our manner and expression, like Samuel of ancient times, ‘Speak [Lord], for thy servant heareth.’ (
1 Sam.
3:10
.)” (“
The Candle of the Lord
,”
Ensign,
Jan.
1983, 53).
Many voices in the world compete for your attention, and they can easily drown out spiritual impressions if you are not careful.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Study the following table.
Think of times when you have experienced any of the feelings, thoughts, or impressions described in the passages below.
As you study and gain experience, add other passages to this list.
Think of how you can use these principles to help others feel and recognize the Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:23
;
11:12–14
;
Romans 15:13
;
Galatians 5:22–23
Gives feelings of love, joy, peace, patience, meekness, gentleness, faith, and hope.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:2–3
Gives ideas in the mind, feelings in the heart.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:1
Occupies the mind and presses on the feelings.
Joseph Smith—History 1:11–12
Helps scriptures have strong effect.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:8–9
Gives good feelings to teach if something is true.
Alma 32:28
;
Doctrine and Covenants 6:14–15
;
1 Corinthians 2:9–11
Enlightens the mind.
Alma 19:6
Replaces darkness with light.
Mosiah 5:2–5
Strengthens the desire to avoid evil and obey the commandments.
John 14:26
Teaches truth and brings it to remembrance.
John 14:27
Gives feelings of peace and comfort.
John 16:13
Guides to truth and shows things to come.
Moroni 10:5
Reveals truth.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:57
Guides and protects from deception.
2 Nephi 31:18
;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:27
;
John 16:14
Glorifies and bears record of God the Father and Jesus Christ.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:16
;
84:85
;
100:5–8
;
Luke 12:11–12
Guides the words of humble teachers.
John 16:8
Recognizes and corrects sin.
Moroni 10:8–17
;
Doctrine and Covenants 46:8–26
;
1 Corinthians 12
Gives gifts of the Spirit.
Alma 10:17
;
12:3
;
18:16, 20, 32, 35
;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:41
Helps to perceive or discern the thoughts of others.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:30
;
50:29–30
Tells what to pray for.
2 Nephi 32:1–5
;
Doctrine and Covenants 28:15
Tells what to do.
1 Nephi 10:22
;
Alma 18:35
Helps the righteous speak with power and authority.
Doctrine and Covenants 21:9
;
100:8
;
John 15:26
Testifies of the truth.
2 Nephi 31:17
;
Alma 13:12
;
3 Nephi 27:20
Sanctifies and brings remission of sins.
1 Nephi 2:16–17
;
2 Nephi 33:1
;
Alma 24:8
Carries truth to the heart of the listener.
1 Nephi 1:1–3
;
Exodus 31:3–5
Enhances skills and abilities.
1 Nephi 7:15
;
2 Nephi 28:1
;
32:7
;
Alma 14:11
;
Mormon 3:16
;
Ether 12:2
Constrains (impels forward) or restrains (holds back).
Doctrine and Covenants 50:13–22
Edifies both teacher and students.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:3
;
John 14:26
Gives comfort.
In answer to the question “How do we recognize the promptings of the Spirit?” President Gordon B.
Hinckley read
Moroni 7:13, 16–17
and then said: “That’s the test, when all is said and done.
Does it persuade one to do good, to rise, to stand tall, to do the right thing, to be kind, to be generous?
Then it is of the Spirit of God. …
“If it invites to do good, it is of God.
If it inviteth to do evil, it is of the devil. … And if you are doing the right thing and if you are living the right way, you will know in your heart what the Spirit is saying to you.
“You recognize the promptings of the Spirit by the fruits of the Spirit—that which enlighteneth, that which buildeth up, that which is positive and affirmative and uplifting and leads us to better thoughts and better words and better deeds is of the Spirit of God” (
Teachings of Gordon B.
Hinckley,
260–61).
God answers your prayers through personal inspiration and revelation.
Through the Holy Ghost He will guide you in your finding efforts, as you teach the restored gospel, and as you strengthen returning members and new converts.
Your task is to live worthily, pray fervently, and learn to recognize and follow courageously the Spirit’s guidance.
Relying on the Spirit
As the Lord’s servant, you are to do His work in His way and by His power.
Some missionaries feel confident that they know how to be successful.
Others lack such confidence.
Remember, however, that your confidence and faith should be in Christ, not in yourself.
Rely on the Spirit rather than your own talents and abilities.
Trust the Spirit to guide you in every aspect of your work.
The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that the Spirit is basic to teaching and preaching:
“No man can preach the Gospel without the Holy Ghost” (History, 1838–1856, volume B-1 [1 September 1834–2 November 1838], 756, Church History Library, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City).
“Some few were called and ordained by the Spirit of revelation and prophecy, and began to preach as the Spirit gave them utterance, and though weak, yet were they strengthened by the power of God” (Orson Pratt,
A[n] Interesting Account of Several Remarkable Visions
[Edinburgh: Ballantyne and Hughes, 1840], 24).
“[Joseph Smith] proceeded to give instruction to the Elders respecting preaching the Gospel, and pressed upon them the necessity of getting the Spirit, so that they might preach with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven” (History, 1838–1856, volume C-1 [2 November 1838–31 July 1842], 969, Church History Library, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City).
During your weekly and daily planning sessions, you will need to ask some basic questions every day—even many times each day (see the “Scripture Study” box that follows for examples of questions).
Seek inspiration to answer these questions in a way that meets each situation.
The answers should then take shape in your plans.
But you should also be willing to follow the Spirit and change your plans when unforeseen opportunities arise.
Study the following scriptures and consider how they answer these important questions that you should ask each day.
Consider what these passages mean for your finding efforts, planning sessions, and personal and companion study.
Also consider their meaning as you teach the lessons, invite people to make commitments, follow up on commitments, strengthen new members and returning members, and work with members.
Scripture Study
Where should I go?
Helaman 10:17
Doctrine and Covenants 31:11
Doctrine and Covenants 75:26–27
Doctrine and Covenants 79:1–2
What should I do?
1 Nephi 4:6
2 Nephi 32:2–5
Doctrine and Covenants 28:15
Doctrine and Covenants 52:3–4
What should I say?
2 Nephi 33:1
Alma 5:43–46
Alma 11:22
Helaman 5:18
Helaman 13:3–5
Doctrine and Covenants 33:8–10
Doctrine and Covenants 50:13–22
Doctrine and Covenants 68:1–4
Doctrine and Covenants 75:3–11
Doctrine and Covenants 100:5–8
Matthew 10:19–20
Mark 13:11
1 Corinthians 2:4–5, 12–13
Exodus 4:10–12
How do I adapt my teaching to the needs of those I teach?
Alma 12:7
Alma 41:1
3 Nephi 17:2–3
Doctrine and Covenants 71:1
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85
Which scriptures should I use and how should I use them?
Mosiah 18:19–20
Mosiah 27:35
Doctrine and Covenants 18:32–36
Doctrine and Covenants 32:4
Doctrine and Covenants 42:11–17
Doctrine and Covenants 68:1–4
Doctrine and Covenants 71:1
Doctrine and Covenants 80:4
Luke 24:13–32
A Word of Caution
As you pray for inspiration, you should also confirm your feelings.
For example, compare your decisions with the scriptures and the teachings of the living prophets.
Be certain that the feelings are consistent with the assignment you have; for example, you will not receive revelation to tell a local bishop how he should perform in his calling.
Discuss your decisions and conclusions with your companion, your district leader, or your mission president when appropriate.
President Howard W.
Hunter offered this counsel: “Let me offer a word of caution. … I think if we are not careful … , we may begin to try to counterfeit the true influence of the Spirit of the Lord by unworthy and manipulative means.
I get concerned when it appears that strong emotion or free-flowing tears are equated with the presence of the Spirit.
Certainly the Spirit of the Lord can bring strong emotional feelings, including tears, but that outward manifestation ought not to be confused with the presence of the Spirit itself” (
The Teachings of Howard W.
Hunter
[1997], 184).
The Spirit of the Lord always edifies.
Revelation and spiritual experiences are sacred.
They should be kept private and discussed only in appropriate situations.
As a missionary, you may be more aware of spiritual experiences than you have been earlier in your life.
Resist the temptation to talk freely about these experiences.
President Boyd K.
Packer counseled: “I have learned that strong, impressive spiritual experiences do not come to us very frequently.
And when they do, they are generally for our own edification, instruction, or correction.
Unless we are called by proper authority to do so, they do not position us to counsel or to correct others.
“I have come to believe also that it is not wise to continually talk of unusual spiritual experiences.
They are to be guarded with care and shared only when the Spirit itself prompts you to use them to the blessing of others” (“
The Candle of the Lord
,” 53).
“If worthy, we are entitled to receive revelations for ourselves, parents for their children, and members of the Church in their callings.
But the right of revelation for others does not extend beyond our own stewardship.”
—President James E.
Faust
“
Communion with the Holy Spirit
,”
Ensign,
Mar.
2002, 4
Scripture Study
Relying on the Spirit is so important that the Lord warns us very strongly not to deny or quench the Spirit.
What do you learn from the following passages of scripture?
Jacob 6:8–9
3 Nephi 29:5–6
Mormon 9:7–9
Moroni 10:7–8
Doctrine and Covenants 11:25–26
1 Thessalonians 5:19–20
Remember This
Pray with faith that your prayers will be answered.
Learn to understand, recognize, and follow the promptings of the Spirit.
Learn to rely on the Spirit to show you where to go, what to do, and what to say.
Teach others how to recognize the Spirit.
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Record your spiritual experiences in your journal.
For example, answer questions such as: Have I understood something better as I have studied the scriptures?
Have I had unusual opportunities to meet people with whom I could share a message?
Have I been given words to say at the moment I needed them?
Have I had strong feelings of love for the people I have met?
How have my prayers been answered?
Divide a page into two columns.
Label one column “What the Lord Did” and the other column “What Lehi or Nephi Did.” Read the story of the Liahona and the broken bow (
1 Nephi 16:9–30
) or the story of Nephi building a ship (
1 Nephi 17:7–16
;
18:1–6
).
As you read, list events from the story in the appropriate columns.
Consider what the story can teach you about the nature of inspiration.
Look through your journal and find occasions when you have been led by the Spirit or have experienced revelation or another gift of the Spirit.
Think about when, where, and why these experiences happened.
Did you do anything in particular to prepare yourself for such an experience?
How was the Lord’s hand manifest in the experience?
How did you feel?
What can you do to have similar experiences?
Remembering these experiences can help you recognize and receive the Spirit once again.
The book of Acts in the Bible has been called the “Book of the Acts of the Holy Spirit through the Apostles.” Read the chapter headings of the book of Acts and explain why this title may be appropriate.
Find evidence to justify your explanation.
Study and ponder the following counsel.
How does it relate to your daily missionary activities?
“Tell the brethren to be humble and faithful and be sure to keep the Spirit of the Lord, that it will lead them aright.
Be careful and not turn away the still, small voice; it will teach them what to do and where to go; it will yield the fruits of the kingdom.
Tell the brethren to keep their heart open to conviction, so that when the Holy Ghost comes to them their hearts will be ready to receive it.
They can tell the Spirit of the Lord from all other spirits—it will whisper peace and joy to their souls; it will take malice, hatred, strife and all evil from their hearts, and their whole desire will be to do good” (quoted in
Juvenile Instructor,
July 19, 1873, 114).
The Prophet Joseph Smith gave this counsel to Brigham Young in a dream almost three years after Joseph Smith’s death.
If you were in Brigham Young’s place and received this counsel, what would you do?
Study
Alma 33:1–12
;
34:17–29, 38
.
What questions was Alma answering? (Review
Alma 33:1–2
.) How did Alma answer these questions?
What assurances did he give that God hears and answers prayers?
The Lord has promised that the Spirit will guide us in many important ways.
As you read the following passages, identify aspects of your work that require the guidance of the Spirit.
What do the commandments and promises contained in the following scriptures mean for your personal and companion study?
for district council, zone conferences, baptismal services, and other meetings?
Praying
3 Nephi 19:24
Doctrine and Covenants 50:30
Doctrine and Covenants 46:30
Romans 8:26
Conducting meetings
Moroni 6:9
Doctrine and Covenants 20:45
Doctrine and Covenants 46:2
Writing
Doctrine and Covenants 9:9
Doctrine and Covenants 24:6
Doctrine and Covenants 47:4
Doctrine and Covenants 104:81
Doctrine and Covenants 124:4
Moses 6:6
Read the following scripture passages (including the headings to these sections).
Doctrine and Covenants 60:1–5
Doctrine and Covenants 61:1–4, 21–22
Doctrine and Covenants 62:4–8
In this account, what was very important to the Lord?
What did not matter to the Lord?
Consider the following statement by President Dallin H.
Oaks:
“[A person may have] a strong desire to be led by the Spirit of the Lord but … unwisely extends that desire to the point of wanting to be led in
all
things.
A desire to be led by the Lord is a strength, but it needs to be accompanied by an understanding that our Heavenly Father leaves many decisions for our personal choices.
Personal decision making is one of the sources of the growth we are meant to experience in mortality.
Persons who try to shift all decision making to the Lord and plead for revelation in every choice will soon find circumstances in which they pray for guidance and don’t receive it.
For example, this is likely to occur in those numerous circumstances in which the choices are trivial or either choice is acceptable.
“We should study things out in our minds, using the reasoning powers our Creator has placed within us.
Then we should pray for guidance and act upon it if we receive it.
If we do not receive guidance, we should act upon our best judgment.
Persons who persist in seeking revelatory guidance on subjects on which the Lord has not chosen to direct us may concoct an answer out of their own fantasy or bias, or they may even receive an answer through the medium of false revelation” (“
Our Strengths Can Become Our Downfall
,”
Ensign,
Oct.
1994, 13–14).
What is the relationship between following your own judgment and relying on the Spirit?
Companion Study
Talk about the prayers you offer as companions.
Are they guided by the Holy Ghost?
Have you received answers to your prayers?
When you pray as companions, do you:
Believe that God will give you what you ask for in righteousness?
Acknowledge and give thanks for answers to your prayers?
Pray for people by name and consider their needs?
Pray for each other and for the Spirit to guide you?
Receive answers to your prayers?
Discuss as companions how you will seek the Spirit more earnestly.
Discuss the different ways that people describe the influence of the Holy Ghost.
Write comments that those you teach have made about their experiences with the Spirit in learning the gospel and trying to keep commitments.
How can you help others recognize this sacred influence?
How can you avoid being manipulative as you do so?
Consider and discuss how the following counsel applies to you: “You cannot force spiritual things.
Such words as
compel, coerce, constrain, pressure, demand,
do not describe our privileges with the Spirit.
You can no more force the Spirit to respond than you can force a bean to sprout, or an egg to hatch before its time.
You can create a climate to foster growth, nourish, and protect; but you cannot force or compel: you must await the growth” (Boyd K.
Packer, “
The Candle of the Lord
,” 53).
Discuss the following statements and how these principles can change both your prayers and your work.
How can your prayers influence your planning, goal setting, work, and activities each day?
“Our deeds, in large measure, are children of our prayers.
Having prayed, we act; our proper petitions have the effect of charting a righteous course of conduct for us” (Bruce R.
McConkie, “
Why the Lord Ordained Prayer
,”
Ensign,
Jan.
1976, 12).
“Sincere praying implies that when we ask for any blessing or virtue we should work for the blessing and cultivate the virtue” (David O.
McKay,
Secrets of a Happy Life
[1968], 114–15).
“Ask [God] to put you just where he wants you, and to tell you what he wants you to do, and feel that you are on hand to do it” (Brigham Young,
Discourses of Brigham Young,
sel.
John A.
Widtsoe [1954], 46).
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Present a lesson on using proper and respectful language in prayer.
As appropriate, have missionaries share a story or experience they heard in a recent testimony meeting, teaching experience, or other setting.
The spiritual stories and experiences other people tell can help you develop faith and recognize that the Spirit’s influence is widely and frequently manifest.
Express gratitude for manifestations of the Lord’s hand in your work (see
Doctrine and Covenants 59:21
).
Discuss how expressing gratitude helps you see the small but very significant ways the Lord blesses you (see
Ether 3:5
).
Ask the missionaries to give talks about the mission and power of the Holy Ghost.
Ask a recent convert to talk about how he or she was influenced by the Spirit as he or she learned about the Church.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Occasionally ask missionaries to include appropriate spiritual experiences in their weekly letter to you.
In interviews or in conversations, occasionally ask missionaries about their morning and evening prayers.
Ask them if they feel their prayers are meaningful.
Ask missionaries how they help those they teach feel and recognize the Spirit.
As appropriate, relate to missionaries how you receive revelation on transfers, missionaries who are disobedient or need help, and doctrine to teach.
Notes
5
What Is the Role of the Book of Mormon?
Image
Christ in the Americas
Consider This
How is the Book of Mormon the keystone of our religion?
How does the Book of Mormon answer the great questions of the soul?
Why is the Book of Mormon so powerful in the conversion process?
How should I use the Book of Mormon to build faith and help others to draw closer to God?
Why is the promise in
Moroni 10:3–5
central in missionary work?
The Book of Mormon, combined with the Spirit, is your most powerful resource in conversion.
It provides powerful evidence for the divinity of Christ.
It is also proof of the Restoration through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
An essential part of conversion is receiving a witness from the Holy Ghost that the Book of Mormon is true.
As a missionary, you must first have a personal testimony that the Book of Mormon is true.
This testimony can lead to a deep and abiding faith in the power of the Book of Mormon during the conversion process.
Have confidence that the Holy Ghost will testify to anyone who reads and ponders the Book of Mormon and asks God if it is true with a sincere heart, real intent, and faith in Christ.
This witness of the Holy Ghost should be a central focus of your teaching.
The Book of Mormon Is the Keystone of Our Religion
Image
keystone
The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that the Book of Mormon is “the keystone of our religion” (
introduction to the Book of Mormon
).
On another occasion he stated: “Take away the Book of Mormon and the revelations, and where is our religion?
We have none” (Minutes and Discourse, 21 April 1834, Church History Library, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City).
An arch is a strong architectural structure made from wedge-shaped pieces that lean against each other.
The middle piece, or keystone, is usually larger than the other wedges and locks the other stones in place.
When Joseph Smith called the Book of Mormon “the keystone of our religion,” he taught that the Book of Mormon holds our religion together.
President Ezra Taft Benson said that the Book of Mormon is the keystone in at least three ways:
Witness of Christ.
“The Book of Mormon is the keystone in our witness of Jesus Christ, who is Himself the cornerstone of everything we do.
It bears witness of His reality with power and clarity.”
Fulness of doctrine.
“The Lord Himself has stated that the Book of Mormon contains the ‘fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ.’ (
Doctrine and Covenants 20:9
[;
27:5
].) … In the Book of Mormon we will find the fulness of [the doctrine] required for our salvation.
And [it is] taught plainly and simply so that even children can learn the ways of salvation and exaltation.”
Image
Book of Mormon
Foundation of testimony.
“Just as the arch crumbles if the keystone is removed, so does all the Church stand or fall with the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon.
The enemies of the Church understand this clearly.
This is why they go to such great lengths to try to disprove the Book of Mormon, for if it can be discredited, the Prophet Joseph Smith goes with it.
So does our claim to priesthood keys, and revelation, and the restored Church.
But in like manner, if the Book of Mormon be true—and millions have now testified that they have the witness of the Spirit that it is indeed true—then one must accept the claims of the Restoration and all that accompanies it” (
A Witness and a Warning
[1988], 18–19).
The Book of Mormon is the most correct of any book on the earth (see
introduction to the Book of Mormon
).
It teaches the doctrine of Christ plainly, especially in the lessons you teach people.
Use it as your main source for teaching the restored gospel.
The following are examples of truths taught plainly in the Book of Mormon that you will teach to people.
Missionary Lesson
Doctrine
References
The Message of the Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
Apostasy, Restoration, Joseph Smith, priesthood authority
1 Nephi 12–14
2 Nephi 3
;
26–29
Mosiah 18
The Plan of Salvation
The “great plan of the Eternal God,” including the Fall of Adam and Eve, the Atonement of Jesus Christ, the Resurrection, and the Judgment
2 Nephi 2
;
9
Mosiah 3
;
15
Alma 34:9
Alma 12
;
40–42
The Gospel of Jesus Christ
Faith in Christ, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end
2 Nephi 31–32
3 Nephi 11
;
27
The Commandments
;
Laws and Ordinances
Ordinances such as baptism, confirmation, priesthood ordination, and the sacrament
3 Nephi 11:22–28
;
18
Moroni 2–6
Activity: Personal Study
Write answers to the following questions in your study journal:
How has your study of the Book of Mormon influenced your testimony of Jesus Christ?
How can you use the Book of Mormon to help strengthen others’ testimonies?
Scripture Study
What does the Savior say about the Book of Mormon?
Doctrine and Covenants 1:29
Doctrine and Covenants 3:19–20
Doctrine and Covenants 17:6
Doctrine and Covenants 19:26–27
Doctrine and Covenants 20:5–16
Doctrine and Covenants 33:16
Doctrine and Covenants 42:12
Moses 7:62
The Book of Mormon Testifies of Christ
Image
portrait of Christ
Photo courtesy C. Harrison Conroy Co., Inc.
Do not copy.
A central purpose of the Book of Mormon is to convince all people that Jesus is the Christ (see
title page of the Book of Mormon
).
It testifies of Christ by affirming the reality of His life, mission, and power.
It teaches true doctrine concerning
Christ’s Atonement
—the foundation for the plan of salvation.
Several of those whose writings are preserved in the Book of Mormon saw Christ personally.
The brother of Jared, Nephi, and Jacob saw the premortal Christ.
Mormon and Moroni saw the risen Christ.
In addition, multitudes were present during the Savior’s brief but powerful ministry among the Nephites (see
3 Nephi 11–28
).
Those who know little or nothing about the Savior will come to know Him by reading, pondering, and praying about the Book of Mormon.
The testimony of the Book of Mormon confirms the testimony of the Bible that Jesus is the Only Begotten Son of God and the Savior of the world.
As you teach the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, you will testify often about the Savior and Redeemer of the world.
By the power of the Holy Ghost, you will add your living witness of the truthfulness of this message.
Scripture Study
What reasons did the Book of Mormon prophets give for writing their records?
1 Nephi 6:4–6
1 Nephi 9:3–5
2 Nephi 4:15–16
2 Nephi 25:23–29
2 Nephi 26:15–16
2 Nephi 29:11–14
2 Nephi 33:13–15
Jacob 1:4–7
Jacob 4:1–6, 12
Enos 1:13
Jarom 1:2
Omni 1:25–26
Words of Mormon 1:3–8
Alma 37:2, 14
3 Nephi 5:14–15
Mormon 8:35
Doctrine and Covenants 3:16–20
Doctrine and Covenants 10:46–48
The Book of Mormon and the Bible Support Each Other
People’s beliefs about the Bible vary widely.
Some believe that the Bible is absolutely perfect, without error, and that it is all we need to be saved.
Others think the Bible is literature worth studying, but they deny that it is evidence of Christ’s divinity and miracles or direct revelation from God.
Some choose to ignore the Bible, and others have never seen the Bible or had a chance to read it.
Latter-day Saints “believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly” (
Articles of Faith 1:8
).
Far from competing with the Bible, the Book of Mormon supports it, exhorts us to read it, and testifies of the truthfulness of its message.
You should use the Book of Mormon and the Bible to support one another.
The Book of Mormon speaks of the ancient covenants God made with His children; the Bible tells of great prophets who also received these covenants by faith.
The Book of Mormon testifies of Christ and His Atonement; the Bible provides the account of His birth, ministry, death, Atonement, and Resurrection.
Thus, the Bible and Book of Mormon complement and enrich each other.
The LDS English edition of the King James Version of the Bible and the Book of Mormon have cross-references and study aids that make the stick of Judah (the Bible) and the stick of Joseph (the Book of Mormon) one in our hands (see
Ezekiel 37:15–17
; see also
1 Nephi 13:34–41
;
2 Nephi 3:12
;
29:8
).
Give priority to Book of Mormon passages when you teach, but also show how the Book of Mormon and the Bible teach the same principles.
Use the Book of Mormon to clarify and explain Bible passages.
For example, the New Testament states that Christ was baptized to “fulfil all righteousness” (
Matthew 3:14–15
).
The Book of Mormon explains what it means to fulfill all righteousness (see
2 Nephi 31:5–9
).
As you use the Book of Mormon and the Bible as companion volumes of scripture, they will overcome contention and correct false doctrine (see
2 Nephi 3:12
).
The Bible teaches the following about the law of witnesses: “In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established” (
2 Corinthians 13:1
).
In harmony with this law, both the Book of Mormon and the Bible testify of Jesus Christ.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Find cross-references on the following topics in the Book of Mormon and Bible.
Examples are given in parentheses after each topic.
Add passages and topics of your own.
Prophets (
Amos 3:7
and
Jacob 4:4–6
)
Apostasy (
2 Timothy 4:3–4
and
2 Nephi 28
)
Restoration (
Acts 3:19–21
and
1 Nephi 13:34–42
)
Children of God (
Acts 17:29
and
1 Nephi 17:36
)
Scripture Study
What does the Bible say about the Book of Mormon?
John 10:16
Isaiah 29:4, 11–18
Ezekiel 37:15–17
Bible Dictionary, “
Ephraim, Stick of
”
What does the Book of Mormon say about the Bible?
1 Nephi 13:20–29, 40–41
2 Nephi 29:3–14
3 Nephi 23:1
Mormon 7:8–9
In what ways do both books serve as testaments of Christ?
2 Nephi 29:8
John 20:31
Acts 10:43
The Book of Mormon Answers Questions of the Soul
President Ezra Taft Benson said that missionaries “need to show how [the Book of Mormon] answers the great questions of the soul” (“
Flooding the Earth with the Book of Mormon
,”
Ensign,
Nov.
1988, 5).
“The great questions of the soul” may include such questions as these: Is there really a God?
Did I exist before I was born?
Will I live after I die?
What is the purpose of life?
Is Jesus really the Savior?
Image
man pondering
Other questions may focus on more temporal needs: How can I improve my relationship with my spouse?
How can I help my teenagers avoid drugs or immorality?
How can I find work to support my family?
The gospel of Jesus Christ helps us answer both kinds of questions.
As we gain faith that the Book of Mormon is true, we can begin to answer questions about the purpose of life and the hope of eternal life.
The Book of Mormon describes the plan of happiness, which gives meaning and perspective to life.
Answers to questions such as the following are clearly taught in the Book of Mormon.
Is there a God? (
Alma 22
)
What does Jesus Christ expect of me? (
2 Nephi 9
)
How can a belief in Jesus Christ help me? (
Alma 36
)
Is there life after death? (
Alma 40
)
What is the purpose of life? (
Alma 34
)
Why does God allow evil and suffering to occur? (
2 Nephi 2
;
Alma 14:9–11
;
60:13
)
Does my infant need to be baptized? (
Moroni 8
)
Does God know me? (
Alma 5:38, 58
)
Does God answer prayers? (
Enos 1
)
How can I find peace and joy? (
Mosiah 2, 4
)
How can my family be happier and more united? (
Mosiah 2
)
How can I balance my family and career? (
3 Nephi 13
)
How can I strengthen my relationship with my spouse? (
3 Nephi 14
)
How can I avoid the evils that threaten my family? (
Alma 39
)
How can I avoid sin? (
Helaman 5
)
As we read the Book of Mormon with the guidance of the Spirit, it helps us answer personal questions.
It teaches that prayer and revelation are the key to solving particular problems.
It helps us have faith that God will answer our prayers.
The Book of Mormon also helps us understand that God’s commandments are not a restrictive list of dos and don’ts but guideposts to a happy, abundant life.
As we begin to understand that the first principles and ordinances of the gospel are the way to the abundant life, we will appreciate that these principles help answer any question and fill any need.
For example, we understand that repentance, forgiveness, and the covenant to serve others are essential in improving relationships with our spouses.
We see that faith in Christ, accepting and keeping covenants, and following the promptings of the Spirit can help teenagers avoid the powerful temptations that surround them.
The gospel can resolve almost any question or need.
This is why you are to “teach the principles of my gospel, which are in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, in the which is the fulness of the gospel” (
Doctrine and Covenants 42:12
).
“In a world ever more dangerous … the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ has the nourishing power to heal starving spirits of the world.”
—President Boyd K.
Packer
“
The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ
,”
Ensign,
Nov.
2001, 64
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Make a list of some “great questions of the soul” that people have asked.
Find verses in the Book of Mormon to answer these questions.
Write the answers in your study journal, and use them as you teach.
The Book of Mormon Draws People Nearer to God
Regarding the Book of Mormon, the Prophet Joseph Smith said that “a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book” (
introduction to the Book of Mormon
).
The Book of Mormon is a springboard to testimony and personal revelation.
Use the Book of Mormon to help people have spiritual experiences, especially a witness from the Holy Ghost that the book itself is true.
By consistently inviting people to live the principles found in the Book of Mormon, you help them develop faith in Jesus Christ and draw nearer to God.
President Gordon B.
Hinckley declared: “Those who have read [the Book of Mormon] prayerfully, be they rich or poor, learned or unlearned, have grown under its power. … Without reservation I promise you that if you will prayerfully read the Book of Mormon, regardless of how many times you previously have read it, there will come into your hearts … the Spirit of the Lord.
There will come a strengthened resolution to walk in obedience to his commandments, and there will come a stronger testimony of the living reality of the Son of God” (“
The Power of the Book of Mormon
,”
Ensign,
June 1988, 6).
Use the Book of Mormon to Respond to Objections
Many people will not believe everything you teach.
President Ezra Taft Benson taught how the Book of Mormon can be the central resource in responding to such situations:
“We are to use the Book of Mormon in handling objections to the Church. …
“… All objections, whether they be on abortion, plural marriage, seventh-day worship, etc., basically hinge on whether Joseph Smith and his successors were and are prophets of God receiving divine revelation. …
Image
portrait of Joseph Smith
My Servant Joseph
© 2004 Liz Lemon Swindle.
This image reproduced by permission Foundation Arts, American Fork, Utah 84003.
“… The only problem the objector has to resolve for himself is whether the Book of Mormon is true.
For if the Book of Mormon is true, then Jesus is the Christ, Joseph Smith was his prophet, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is true, and it is being led today by a prophet receiving revelation.
“Our main task is to declare the gospel and do it effectively.
We are not obligated to answer every objection.
Every man eventually is backed up to the wall of faith, and there he must make his stand” (
A Witness and a Warning,
4–5).
For example, sincere people might object to what you have taught about the Word of Wisdom.
Help them see that their real question is whether Joseph Smith was speaking as God’s prophet when this commandment was renewed in this dispensation.
You might say: “Having the faith to accept this teaching will require the assurance that this commandment came to us through revelation from God to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
The way to know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God is to read and pray about the Book of Mormon.”
People must resolve for themselves their concerns and objections.
You can help as you focus them on what will strengthen their faith in Jesus Christ—reading and praying about the Book of Mormon.
When they strengthen their testimony of the Restoration, they will have the strength to overcome their objections and concerns.
As you answer concerns, remember that our understanding comes from modern prophets—Joseph Smith and his successors—who receive direct revelation from God.
Therefore, the first question someone should answer is whether Joseph Smith was a prophet, and he or she can answer this question by reading and praying about the Book of Mormon.
Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon
One way to know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God is to read and pray about the Book of Mormon.
Activity: Personal Study
In your study journal, write down how you would refer to Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon to respond to the following objections or concerns:
“I don’t believe that God speaks to people anymore.”
“I believe that I can worship God in my own way rather than through some organized religion.”
“Why must I give up drinking wine with my meals if I join your church?”
“Why do I need religion?”
How Should You Use the Book of Mormon?
Many people you teach either do not read the Book of Mormon or do not understand what they read.
Those who do not read or understand the Book of Mormon will have difficulty receiving a witness that it is true.
Read the Book of Mormon with People You Teach
As you read together, pray that the Holy Ghost will testify to them that the Book of Mormon is true.
Image
missionaries teaching in kitchen
You can help people by reading the Book of Mormon with them.
Pray for help as you select passages that address their concerns and problems.
You may read with them as part of a teaching appointment or during a follow-up visit.
You can also arrange for members to read with them.
Some particularly important passages include the
title page
, the
introduction
(especially the last two paragraphs), and
Moroni 10:3–5
.
These passages help people understand how to gain a testimony of the Book of Mormon.
Encourage them to read the Book of Mormon from the beginning, including the
testimonies of the Three
and
Eight Witnesses
and the
testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith
.
Read and discuss short passages (such as
1 Nephi 3:7
or
Mosiah 2:17
) and longer passages or complete chapters (such as
2 Nephi 31
,
Alma 7
, or
3 Nephi 18
).
“Please do not take the Book of Mormon for granted.
Pray for a vision of how the Book of Mormon can be used more effectively in your mission.
I promise that as you do so, your mind will be enlightened with the direction that you should take.”
—Elder Joseph B.
Wirthlin
Address given at the seminar for new mission presidents, June 23, 1999
When you read with people, stop occasionally and discuss what you read.
Point out key messages or important doctrine to look for as you read with them.
Share appropriate insights, feelings, testimonies, and personal experiences.
Help others feel the spiritual power of the Book of Mormon.
In this way you can teach them true doctrine directly from the Book of Mormon.
Continue this practice in subsequent visits so that the people you teach can develop the ability to read and pray on their own.
Teach doctrine and principles using the words and phrases of Book of Mormon prophets.
Explain the background and context of a passage.
Explain unfamiliar words and phrases.
“Liken” what you have read to yourself and those you teach by finding applications that are relevant to you personally (see
1 Nephi 19:23
).
To “liken” is to create a mental bridge between understanding the doctrine and living the doctrine.
To read sincerely, with real intent, you and those you teach must be willing to act on the doctrine, to incorporate it into your daily lives, and, as necessary, to repent.
By living the doctrine, you will gain an assurance that it is true.
For example, you might say to a person:
“Nephi, like you, was faced with a difficult challenge.
But as he exercised faith to ‘go and do’ what the Lord commanded him, he was able to succeed. (Read
1 Nephi 3:7
.) I know that God will prepare a way for you to live the Word of Wisdom.”
“John, it is good that you want to be free from the guilt you feel.
Just as the Savior promised the Nephites, if you repent, are baptized, and receive the Holy Ghost, you will be ‘guiltless before [the] Father.’” (Read
3 Nephi 27:16
.)
Rely on the promise in
Moroni 10:3–5
.
Every person who sincerely reads and prays about this book can know with certainty of its truthfulness by the power of the Holy Ghost.
Do all you can to help people:
Read the Book of Mormon and ponder its message concerning Jesus Christ.
Pray to God with faith in Jesus Christ to receive a testimony that the Book of Mormon is true and that Joseph Smith is the prophet of the Restoration.
Pray sincerely and have real intent, which means that they intend to act on the answer they receive from God.
You too should apply this promise regularly to strengthen and renew your own testimony of the Book of Mormon.
This renewed testimony will help you maintain a firm confidence that anyone who applies this promise will receive the answer.
Use the Book of Mormon in Every Aspect of Your Work
The Book of Mormon is a powerful resource in conversion.
Use it as your main source for teaching restored truth.
Remember This
The Book of Mormon is the keystone of our witness of Christ, our doctrine, and our testimonies.
The Book of Mormon teaches plainly the doctrine found in the missionary lessons.
Use the Book of Mormon to answer the questions of the soul and to respond to objections to the Church.
Read consistently from the Book of Mormon with the people you teach.
Do all you can to help them read on their own every day and apply what they learn in their lives.
Trust the Lord’s promise that every person who sincerely reads and prays about the Book of Mormon will know of its truthfulness by the power of the Holy Ghost.
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Read
2 Nephi 2
,
9
,
30
,
31
,
32
, and highlight every reference to Jesus Christ.
Make a list of the different names and titles for Christ used in these chapters.
Underline the spoken words of Christ.
Highlight His attributes and His actions.
You might want to continue this practice as you read the entire Book of Mormon.
Write in your study journal how you felt when you first gained a spiritual witness that the Book of Mormon is true.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:17
uses the phrase “by these things we know” to introduce doctrine taught and clarified by the Book of Mormon.
Read
Doctrine and Covenants 20:15–35
and make a list of the teachings mentioned.
Select one teaching and use the Topical Guide to compare what the Bible teaches about it.
Compare the Sermon on the Mount in
Matthew 5–7
and Christ’s sermon at the temple in
3 Nephi 12–14
.
Make a list of the plain and precious truths restored through the Book of Mormon.
Make a list of questions that people have asked.
Find Book of Mormon passages that answer those questions, and use them as needed in your daily teaching.
Find a Book of Mormon scripture that has changed your life.
Record your feelings about this scripture in your study journal.
Locate each instance in the Book of Mormon where the words of someone’s prayer are recorded.
In your study journal, write the common elements of these prayers.
Read
2 Nephi 33:10–15
and
Moroni 10:27–29, 34
.
What will you tell Nephi and Moroni at the judgment bar about your use of the Book of Mormon?
Write your response and set goals to improve.
From the chapter headings of
Mosiah 11–16
, write a summary of what Abinadi taught.
Read these chapters and expand your summary.
From the chapter headings of
Mosiah 2–5
, write a summary of what King Benjamin taught.
Read these chapters and expand your summary.
As you read daily from the Book of Mormon, record in your study journal the passages that impress you.
Write how you will apply them in your life.
Companion Study
Read Book of Mormon passages together.
Share what you have learned and felt.
Also bear your testimonies to each other.
Which Book of Mormon prophet or missionary would you like to be like and why?
Share your response with your companion.
Read
Alma 26
and
29
as companions.
Share how you feel about your mission.
Write your feelings in your study journal.
Read
Alma 37:9
and discuss how critical the scriptures were to Ammon and his fellow missionaries.
Find references describing how they used the scriptures.
Read
Alma 11–14
with your companion, one taking the role of Alma or Amulek and the other the detractors.
Note how these missionaries responded to difficult questions.
Read the following true account and discuss what you learn concerning the importance and power of the Book of Mormon (names have been changed).
“When we invited the Sniders to be baptized and confirmed, Sister Snider was ready, but Brother Snider said, ‘Don’t get your hopes up, Elders.
I don’t know if I can ever do this!’ Although Brother Snider accepted what we taught and was always warm and friendly, he was deeply concerned about how his family would react to his joining another church.
“After several weeks of watching Brother Snider struggle, my companion and I felt impressed to again read
3 Nephi 11
with the Sniders.
I will never forget what happened that night.
As we opened the Book of Mormon, my companion explained, ‘This chapter, as you might recall, recounts the Savior’s visit to the people in the Book of Mormon.
Here we read about the Savior’s love for these people and what He taught them.’ We each took turns reading a verse or two.
After reading through verse 5, my companion interrupted and said, ‘I have always been impressed with the description given here of the voice they heard.
The voice was not harsh, it was not loud, and although it was a small voice, it had a powerful piercing effect on them.
This voice was not only heard with their ears, but it spoke to their hearts.’ I watched the Sniders as they listened intently to my companion.
“After some discussion about prayer and listening to the Spirit, it was Brother Snider’s turn to read: ‘And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them: Behold my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him.’ Brother Snider paused, looking intently at his Book of Mormon.
Then he looked up at me and said, ‘Heavenly Father was really proud of His Son, wasn’t He?’ ‘Yes,’ I said.
Brother Snider looked back at his book again and stared at the open pages as if deep in thought.
Finally he said, ‘I would want Heavenly Father to be proud of me too.
I wonder how He would introduce me.
I guess, if I … well, if I want Him to be proud of me then I had better do what He wants me to do.’ ‘Yes, I think that would be important,’ I replied. ‘Well,’ Brother Snider continued. ‘I think I’ve been worrying too much about what everybody else thinks and not enough about what God thinks.’ After a brief pause Brother Snider nodded and with a determined look said, ‘I think I had better be baptized.’ His response was so unexpected that my companion and I looked at him with blank stares.
Finally, my companion said, ‘Yes, that would be the right thing to do.
In fact, later on in this chapter the Savior teaches …’ As my companion talked I felt a burning in my heart and gratitude for the power of the Book of Mormon.”
How did these missionaries use the Book of Mormon?
How will you and your companion use it more effectively in your missionary efforts?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Practice using the Book of Mormon in each of the ways mentioned in the main headings of this chapter.
List objections or questions raised by those you are teaching.
Explain to each other how you would answer these questions using the Book of Mormon.
Read Book of Mormon passages together.
Share knowledge, feelings, and testimony.
Practice using the Book of Mormon to confirm the message of the Restoration.
Select one of the great Book of Mormon missionaries.
Discuss and have missionaries list the characteristics of this missionary.
Invite each missionary to set a goal to apply one of these characteristics.
Repeat this activity regularly using Book of Mormon missionaries.
Invite missionaries to share experiences in which the Book of Mormon has helped those they have taught in the conversion process.
Have missionaries share their best Book of Mormon answer to a question of the soul.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Teach the missionaries how to use the Book of Mormon to confirm the truthfulness of the message of the Restoration.
Read
1 Nephi 1
with the missionaries and compare it with
Joseph Smith’s experience
.
Provide missionaries with a clean paperback copy of the Book of Mormon.
Have them highlight in different colors:
Each reference to Jesus Christ (any of His names or pronouns referring to Him).
His words (spoken by Him or by prophets when they say, “Thus saith the Lord”).
His attributes.
The doctrine and principles contained in the Book of Mormon.
At the bottom of each page ask the missionaries to count the total number of items referenced.
In interviews and during district council during the two- or three-month period for this activity, have missionaries share with each other what they’ve learned.
You might consider doing a similar activity with the entire mission highlighting references to faith in Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, or any of the fundamental principles of the gospel.
During interviews or in conversations, invite missionaries to share with you Book of Mormon scriptures that have changed their lives.
Help missionaries see how the Book of Mormon teaches the doctrine from the missionary lessons.
For example, if the topic were the Atonement of Jesus Christ, have missionaries write in one column each major element of Christ’s Atonement taught in the Book of Mormon, including the scripture references.
Then, in a second column, have them list side-by-side those same elements as taught in the Bible.
Have your missionaries leave blank those elements that are missing or not taught in the Bible.
It will become very evident to the missionaries how the Book of Mormon is the keystone of our doctrine.
This same activity can be done with other doctrine that missionaries teach.
Identify pertinent questions of the soul for people in your mission.
Invite missionaries to find answers in the Book of Mormon.
Notes
6
How Do I Develop Christlike Attributes?
Image
Christ calling Peter and Andrew
Consider This
How can I develop attributes that will make me a more powerful and effective minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ?
How will developing Christlike attributes help me fulfill my purpose as a missionary?
Which attribute do I most need to develop?
At the beginning of His mortal ministry, Jesus Christ walked along the shore of the sea of Galilee and called out to two fishermen, Peter and Andrew. “Follow me,” He said, “and I will make you fishers of men” (
Matthew 4:19
; see also
Mark 1:17
).
The Lord has also called you to His work, and He invites you to follow Him.
The invitation to follow Christ is an invitation to follow His example and to become like Him, which can only happen through the Atonement of Jesus Christ (see
Mosiah 3:19
).
Some chapters in
Preach My Gospel
focus on what you need to do as a missionary—how to study, how to teach, how to manage time wisely.
Just as vital as what you do, however, is who you are and who you are becoming.
This is part of what it means to endure to the end through increasing your faith in Christ, continuing regularly to repent of your sins by relying upon Christ, renewing your covenants with the Father and the Son through partaking of the sacrament regularly, and following the promptings of the Holy Ghost in all things.
The restored gospel enables you to become like Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ.
The Savior has shown the way.
He has set the perfect example, and He commands us to become as He is (see
3 Nephi 27:27
).
Learn of Him and seek to incorporate His attributes into your life.
Through the power of His Atonement, you can achieve this goal and lead others to achieve it also.
The scriptures describe Christlike attributes that are essential for you to eventually develop as a missionary and throughout your life.
Study the scripture passages in this chapter and look for other examples of Christlike attributes as you study other passages.
Christlike attributes are gifts from God.
They come as you use your agency righteously.
Ask your Heavenly Father to bless you with these attributes; you cannot develop them without His help.
With a desire to please God, recognize your weaknesses and be willing and anxious to improve.
Scripture Study
What do these scriptures say about following Jesus Christ’s example?
3 Nephi 12:48
3 Nephi 27:21, 27
John 13:1–16
1 Peter 2:21
What is the relationship between the first principles of the gospel and Christlike attributes?
Moroni 8:25–26
Ideas for Studying This Chapter
There are many approaches for studying this chapter.
Try one of the following ideas:
As you complete the “
Attribute Activity
” at the end of this chapter, identify the attribute you most need or want to develop.
Study the section about that attribute, and set goals for developing it.
Read through the chapter without studying the scriptures, and determine which attribute you want to study more fully.
Then study the key scriptures associated with the attribute.
Search for additional scriptures not listed in the chapter that teach about the attribute.
Record ideas for developing the attribute in your study journal.
Identify an attribute you wish to study.
Follow the pattern under the heading “
Developing Christlike Attributes
” found near the end of the chapter.
Faith in Jesus Christ
Image
Gentle Healer
© 1989 Conceptions Unlimited Investments, Inc.
Do not copy.
When you have faith in Christ, you believe in Him as the Son of God, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh.
You accept Him as your Savior and Redeemer and follow His teachings.
You believe that your sins can be forgiven through His Atonement.
Faith in Him means that you trust Him and are confident that He loves you.
Faith leads to action, including repentance, obedience, and dedicated service.
When you have faith in Jesus Christ, you trust the Lord enough to follow His commandments—even when you do not completely understand the reasons for them.
You accomplish what the Lord wants you to accomplish.
You help bring about good in your own life and the lives of
others.
You are able to do miracles according to the Lord’s will.
Your faith will be manifest through diligence and work.
Faith is a principle of power.
God works by power, but His power is usually exercised in response to faith (see
Moroni 10:7
).
He works according to the faith of His children.
Doubt and fear are opposed to faith.
Your faith will increase through diligent study, prayer, dedicated service, and obedience to the promptings of the Holy Ghost and the commandments.
Your faith in Jesus Christ grows as you become better acquainted with Him and His teachings.
As you explore the scriptures and search them, you learn of His ways, His love for all people, and His commandments.
Faith includes confidence in the mission and power of the Holy Ghost.
Through faith you receive answers to your prayers and personal inspiration to guide you in the Lord’s work.
Scripture Study
What is faith?
Alma 32:21
Ether 12:6
Hebrews 11:1
; see footnote
b
Bible Dictionary, “
Faith
”
Topical Guide, “
Faith
”
How do you obtain faith, and what can you do through faith?
2 Nephi 25:29
2 Nephi 26:13
Mosiah 4:6–12
Alma 32
Helaman 15:7–8
Ether 12:7–22
Moroni 7:33
Romans 10:17
Hebrews 11
What blessings come through faith?
Mosiah 3:17
Mosiah 5:1–15
Helaman 5:9–12
John 14:6
Hope
“Being blessed with hope, let us, as disciples, reach out to all who, for whatever reason, have ‘moved away from the hope of the gospel’ (
Col.
1:23
).
Let us reach to lift hands which hang hopelessly down.”
—Elder Neal A.
Maxwell
“
Brightness of Hope
,”
Ensign,
Nov.
1994, 36
Hope is an abiding trust that the Lord will fulfill His promises to you.
It is manifest in confidence, optimism, enthusiasm, and patient perseverance.
It is believing and expecting that something will occur.
When you have hope, you work through trials and difficulties with the confidence and assurance that all things will work together for your good.
Hope helps you conquer discouragement.
The scriptures often describe hope in Jesus Christ as the assurance that you will inherit eternal life in the celestial kingdom.
President James E.
Faust taught:
“Hope is the anchor of our souls. …
“Hope is trust in God’s promises, faith that if we act now, the desired blessings will be fulfilled in the future. …
“The unfailing source of our hope is that we are sons and daughters of God and that His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, saved us from death” (“
Hope, an Anchor of the Soul
,”
Ensign,
Nov.
1999, 59–60).
Scripture Study
What is hope and what do we hope for?
2 Nephi 31:20
Alma 58:10–11
Ether 12:4, 32
Moroni 7:40–48
Doctrine and Covenants 59:23
Doctrine and Covenants 138:14
Romans 8:24–25
Hebrews 6:10–20
Topical Guide, “
Hope
”
Charity and Love
Image
O My Father
© 2001 Simon Dewey.
Do not copy.
A man once asked Jesus, “Which is the great commandment in the law?” Jesus replied: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.
This is the first and great commandment.
And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself” (
Matthew 22:36–39
).
Charity is “the pure love of Christ” (
Moroni 7:47
).
It includes God’s eternal love for all His children.
We are to seek to develop that kind of love.
When you are filled with charity, you obey God’s commandments and do all you can to serve others and help them receive the restored gospel.
Charity is a gift from God.
The prophet Mormon said that we should “pray unto the Father with all the energy of heart, that [we] may be filled with this love” (
Moroni 7:48
).
As you follow this counsel and strive to do righteous works, your love for all people will increase, especially those among whom you labor.
You will come to feel a sincere concern for the eternal welfare and happiness of other people.
You will see them as children of God with the potential of becoming like our Heavenly Father, and you will labor in their behalf.
You will avoid negative feelings such as anger, envy, lust, or covetousness.
You will avoid judging others, criticizing them, or saying negative things about them.
You will try to understand them and their points of view.
You will be patient with them and try to help them when they are struggling or discouraged.
Charity, like faith, leads to action.
You will develop charity as you look for opportunities to serve others and give of yourself.
Scripture Study
What is charity?
Moroni 7:45–48
1 Corinthians 13
Bible Dictionary, “
Charity
”
How did Jesus Christ demonstrate charity?
1 Nephi 19:9
Alma 7:11–13
Ether 12:33–34
Luke 7:12–15
What do these verses teach you about charity?
2 Nephi 26:30
Mosiah 2:17
Mosiah 28:3
Alma 7:24
Ether 12:28
Doctrine and Covenants 88:125
1 Timothy 4:12
1 Peter 4:8
; see footnote
a
Virtue
Virtue originates in your innermost thoughts and desires.
It is a pattern of thought and behavior based on high moral standards.
Since the Holy Ghost does not dwell in unclean tabernacles, virtue is prerequisite to receiving the Spirit’s guidance.
What you choose to think and do when you are alone and you believe no one is watching is a strong measure of your virtue.
Virtuous people are clean and pure spiritually.
They focus on righteous, uplifting thoughts and put unworthy thoughts that lead to inappropriate actions out of their minds.
They obey God’s commandments and follow the counsel of Church leaders.
They pray for the strength to resist temptation and do what is right.
They quickly repent of any sins or wrongdoings.
They live worthy of a temple recommend.
Your mind is like a stage in a theater; in the theater of your mind, however, only one actor can be on stage at a time.
If the stage is left bare, thoughts of darkness and sin often enter the stage to tempt.
But these thoughts have no power if the stage of your mind is occupied by wholesome thoughts, such as a memorized hymn or verse of scripture that you can call upon in a moment of temptation.
By controlling the stage of your mind, you can successfully resist persistent urges to yield to temptation and indulge in sin.
You can become pure and virtuous.
Scripture Study
What does it mean to be virtuous?
Doctrine and Covenants 4:6
Doctrine and Covenants 25:2
Doctrine and Covenants 38:24
Doctrine and Covenants 46:33
Doctrine and Covenants 121:45–46
Articles of Faith 1:13
2 Peter 1:3–8
Topical Guide, “
Virtue
”
Knowledge
The Lord commanded, “Seek learning, even by study and also by faith” (
Doctrine and Covenants 88:118
).
He also warned, “It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance” (
Doctrine and Covenants 131:6
).
Seek knowledge, especially spiritual knowledge.
Study the scriptures every day, and also study the words of the living prophets.
Through study and prayer, seek help for your specific questions, challenges, and opportunities.
Give special attention to scripture passages you can use as you teach and as you answer questions about the restored gospel.
Think about how you can apply gospel principles in your life.
As you study diligently, prayerfully, and with pure intent, the Holy Ghost will enlighten your mind, teach you, and help you understand the meaning of the scriptures and the teachings of living prophets.
You can also gain knowledge by watching and listening to others, especially Church leaders.
Like Nephi, you can say: “My soul delighteth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them. … Behold, my soul delighteth in the things of the Lord; and my heart pondereth continually upon the things which I have seen and heard” (
2 Nephi 4:15–16
).
Scripture Study
How does knowledge help us do the Lord’s work?
Alma 17:2–3
Doctrine and Covenants 88:77–80
How can you obtain knowledge?
2 Nephi 32:1–5
Moroni 10:5
Doctrine and Covenants 42:61
Doctrine and Covenants 76:5–10
Doctrine and Covenants 88:118
Bible Dictionary, “
Knowledge
”
Topical Guide, “
Knowledge
”
Patience
Patience is the capacity to endure delay, trouble, opposition, or suffering without becoming angry, frustrated, or anxious.
It is the ability to do God’s will and accept His timing.
When you are patient, you hold up under pressure and are able to face adversity calmly and hopefully.
Patience is related to hope and faith—you must wait for the Lord’s promised blessings to be fulfilled.
You need patience in your everyday experiences and relationships, especially with your companion.
You must be patient with all people, yourself included, as you work to overcome faults and weaknesses.
“Life is full of difficulties, some minor and others of a more serious nature.
There seems to be an unending supply of challenges for one and all.
Our problem is that we often expect instantaneous solutions to such challenges, forgetting that frequently the heavenly virtue of patience is required.”
—President Thomas S.
Monson
“
Patience—a Heavenly Virtue
,”
Ensign,
Nov.
1995, 59
Activity: Personal Study
Study
Mosiah 28:1–9
.
What were the desires of the sons of Mosiah?
What was the Lord’s counsel to those missionaries? (See
Alma 17:10–11
and
26:27
.)
What were some results of their patience and diligence? (See
Alma 26
.)
Write your answers in your study journal.
Scripture Study
Why is patience important?
How are patience and faith related?
Mosiah 23:21
Mosiah 24:9–16
Alma 31:31
Alma 32:41–43
Alma 34:40–41
Doctrine and Covenants 101:38
Romans 5:3–5
Romans 8:24–25
2 Corinthians 6:1–10
James 5:10–11
Psalm 46:10
Topical Guide, “
Patience, Patient, Patiently
”
Humility
Image
The Greatest of All
Humility is willingness to submit to the will of the Lord and to give the Lord the honor for what is accomplished.
It includes gratitude for His blessings and acknowledgment of your constant need for His divine help.
Humility is not a sign of weakness; it is a sign of spiritual strength.
When you humbly trust Him and acknowledge His power and mercy, you can have the assurance that His commandments are for your good.
You are confident that you can do whatever the Lord requires
of you if you rely on Him.
You are also willing to trust His chosen servants and follow their counsel.
Humility will help you as you strive to be obedient, to work hard, and to serve selflessly.
The opposite of humility is pride, which is condemned in the scriptures.
To be prideful means to put greater trust in oneself than in God or in His servants.
It also means to put the things of the world above the things of God.
Prideful people take honor to themselves rather than giving God the glory.
Pride is competitive; those who are prideful seek to have more and presume they are better than other people.
Pride usually results in feelings of anger and hatred, and it is a great stumbling block.
Scripture Study
What does it mean to be humble?
2 Nephi 9:28–29
Mosiah 4:11–12
Alma 5:26–29
Alma 26:12
Matthew 26:39
Topical Guide, “
Humility, Humble
”
What blessings do you receive when you humble yourself?
Alma 32:1–16
Ether 12:27
Doctrine and Covenants 12:8
Doctrine and Covenants 67:10
Doctrine and Covenants 112:10
Doctrine and Covenants 136:32–33
Matthew 23:12
How can you recognize pride in yourself?
1 Nephi 15:7–11
1 Nephi 16:1–3
2 Timothy 3:1–4
Proverbs 13:10
Proverbs 15:10
Proverbs 28:25
Diligence
Diligence is steady, consistent, earnest, and energetic effort in doing the Lord’s work.
The Lord expects you to work diligently—persistently and with great effort and care.
A diligent missionary works effectively and efficiently.
Diligence in missionary work is an expression of your love for the Lord and His work.
When you are diligent, you find joy and satisfaction in your work.
Do many good things of your own free will (see
Doctrine and Covenants 58:27
).
Don’t wait for your leaders to tell you what to do.
Continue until you have done all you can, even when you are tired.
Focus on the most important things and avoid wasting time.
Pray for guidance and strength.
Plan regularly and effectively.
Avoid anything that distracts your thoughts or actions.
“I have often said one of the greatest secrets of missionary work is work!
If a missionary works, he will get the Spirit; if he gets the Spirit, he will teach by the Spirit; and if he teaches by the Spirit, he will touch the hearts of the people and he will be happy.
There will be no homesickness, no worrying about families, for all time and talents and interests are centered on the work of the ministry.
Work, work, work—there is no satisfactory substitute, especially in missionary work.”
—President Ezra Taft Benson
The Teachings of Ezra Taft Benson
(1988), 200
Scripture Study
What does it mean to be diligent?
Moroni 9:6
Doctrine and Covenants 10:4
Doctrine and Covenants 107:99–100
Topical Guide, “
Diligence, Diligent, Diligently
”
Why does the Lord expect you to be diligent?
Doctrine and Covenants 75:2–5
Doctrine and Covenants 123:12–14
Doctrine and Covenants 127:4
Doctrine and Covenants 130:20–21
How does diligence relate to agency?
Mosiah 4:26–27
Doctrine and Covenants 58:26–29
Obedience
As a missionary, you are expected to keep the commandments willingly, to obey mission rules, and to follow the counsel of your leaders.
Obedience is the first law of heaven.
It is an act of faith.
You may sometimes be required to do things you do not completely understand.
As you obey, you increase in faith, knowledge, wisdom, testimony, protection, and freedom.
Strive to be obedient to the Lord, the living prophet, and your mission president.
“The discipline contained in daily obedience and clean living and wholesome lives builds an armor around you of protection and safety from the temptations that beset you as you proceed through mortality.”
—Elder L. Tom Perry
“
Called to Serve
,”
Ensign,
May 1991, 39
Scripture Study
What does it mean to be obedient?
1 Nephi 2:3
Mosiah 5:8
Mosiah 15:7
Doctrine and Covenants 82:8–10
Matthew 7:24–27
John 7:17
John 14:15
Topical Guide, “
Obedience, Obedient, Obey
”
What can you learn about obedience from these scriptures?
1 Nephi 3:7
Doctrine and Covenants 105:6
2 Kings 5:1–14
Why did the young warriors in Helaman’s army obey with exactness?
How were they blessed?
Alma 56:45–48
Alma 57:21–27
Developing Christlike Attributes
As you study and seek to develop the attributes described in this chapter and other attributes found in the scriptures, the following pattern may be helpful:
Identify the attribute you wish to develop.
Write a definition and description of the attribute.
Record questions to answer as you study.
List and study thoroughly passages of scripture that teach about the attribute.
Record your feelings and impressions.
Set goals and make plans to apply the attribute in your life.
Pray for the Lord to help you develop the attribute.
Evaluate your progress periodically in developing each attribute.
Activity: Personal Study
Identify an attribute from this chapter or from the scriptures.
Follow the pattern found above to better understand and plan for developing the attribute.
Image
Missionaries
Look at the image of the name tag.
How does your name tag differ from that worn by an employee of a company?
Note that the two most prominent parts are your name and the Savior’s name.
How can you ensure that you represent the Savior as one of His disciples?
Why is it important for people to associate your name with the Savior’s in a positive way?
Write your thoughts in your study journal.
Scripture Study
What are some attributes listed in the scriptures?
Mosiah 3:19
Alma 7:23
Doctrine and Covenants 4
Doctrine and Covenants 121:41–45
Articles of Faith 1:13
Philippians 4:8
2 Peter 1:5–8
Remember This
You need to
be
a Christlike missionary, not just
do
missionary things.
Learning to be like Christ is a lifelong pursuit.
You follow Christ’s example—develop His attributes—one action and decision at a time.
Changing to become Christlike requires exercising faith, repenting, keeping covenants, receiving an increased measure of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Prepare a five-minute talk on one of the attributes discussed in this chapter.
Using the Topical Guide or Guide to the Scriptures, look for ways the Savior has exemplified the attributes described in this chapter.
Record what you learn in your study journal.
Periodically complete the “Attribute Activity” at the end of this chapter.
Identify an attribute in this chapter.
Ask yourself:
How can I develop this attribute?
What must change in my heart, mind, and actions to develop this attribute?
How will keeping covenants help me develop this attribute?
How will developing this attribute help me qualify for the Holy Spirit and become a more powerful minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ?
Find examples of Christlike attributes in the lives of men and women in the scriptures.
Record your impressions in your study journal.
Companion Study
Study references to Christlike attributes in Gospel Library or other approved resources.
Discuss relationships among different attributes.
For example:
How does faith relate to diligence?
In what ways are humility and love related?
How does knowledge strengthen patience?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Several days before district council, zone conference, or mission leadership council, ask each missionary to select one of the attributes in this chapter or in the scriptures and prepare a five-minute talk on that attribute, including scriptures that have helped him or her.
Allow time in the meeting for a few missionaries to share their talks.
Divide the missionaries into three groups, and give them the following assignment:
Group 1:
Read
1 Nephi 17:7–16
and answer the following questions:
How did Nephi exercise his faith?
What did Nephi do that was Christlike?
What promises did the Lord make to Nephi if he would be faithful and keep the commandments?
How does this account apply to missionary work?
Group 2:
Read
Jacob 7:1–15
and answer the following questions:
Why was Jacob’s faith strong enough to resist Sherem’s attack?
How did Jacob exercise faith when he talked with Sherem?
How were Jacob’s actions Christlike?
What can we do to develop faith like Jacob’s?
Group 3:
Read
Joseph Smith—History 1:8–18
, and answer the following questions:
In what ways did Joseph Smith exercise faith in Jesus Christ?
How was his faith tried?
What did he do that was Christlike?
What can we do to follow Joseph Smith’s example?
After the groups finish, bring the missionaries together and ask them to share what they discussed.
Share an experience of when you were blessed or inspired by another person’s faith.
Have missionaries refer to the “Attribute Activity.” Give each missionary a piece of paper on which to write his or her answers.
When they have completed the worksheet, invite them to set personal goals.
Ask a few of the missionaries to share what they learned and felt as they completed the worksheet.
Share your testimony concerning the importance of developing Christlike attributes.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Ask missionaries to read one of the four Gospels in the New Testament or
3 Nephi 11–28
.
Have them underline what the Savior did that they can also do.
Use goal setting and planning to teach missionaries about diligence.
Show how diligence in focusing on people is an expression of love.
During interviews or in conversations, ask missionaries to talk about an attribute they are trying to develop.
In a zone conference or in mission leadership council, invite missionaries to tell about Christlike attributes they admire in their companions.
7
How Can I Better Learn My Mission Language?
Image
flags
Photo: GettyImages.com.
Do not copy.
Consider This
Why must I continually improve my language abilities?
How can I improve my ability to speak and teach in my mission language?
How can I obtain the gift of tongues?
Prepare Yourself Spiritually
The Lord declared, “Every man shall hear the fulness of the gospel in his own tongue, and in his own language, through those who are ordained unto this power” (
Doctrine and Covenants 90:11
).
Strengthen your personal testimony to bring converting power to your words.
First study the doctrine and the lessons in your native language.
That understanding will strengthen your testimony and your capacity to teach and testify convincingly.
You can then learn to express the message of the Restoration in your mission language under the guidance of the Spirit.
Listed below are ways you can strengthen your faith that the Lord will help you teach and testify in your mission language:
Recognize that you have been called of God by a prophet.
Live worthy of the companionship of the Holy Ghost.
Be obedient to the commandments and to missionary standards.
Pray sincerely for divine assistance.
Seek the gifts of the Spirit, including the gift of tongues and the gift of interpretation of tongues.
Study, practice, and use the mission language each day.
Be Dedicated and Diligent
Learning to teach effectively in your mission language requires diligent effort and the gifts of the Spirit.
Do not be surprised if the task seems hard at first.
Learning a language takes time.
Be patient with yourself.
Listen carefully, speak the language often, learn new vocabulary, and practice grammar and pronunciation every day.
Seek the help of your companion, members, those you teach, and other missionaries.
Do not stop improving your language skills once people begin to understand you.
As your ability to speak the language grows, people will listen more to what you say than to how you say it.
You will be less worried about how to communicate the feelings that are in your heart.
You will be better able to respond to the needs of those you teach and the promptings of the Spirit.
Strive to master the language throughout your mission and after you return.
The Lord has invested much in you, and He may have uses for your language abilities later in your life.
Elder Jeffrey R.
Holland explained: “We would … hope that every missionary learning a new … language would master it in every way possible. … And as you do so, your [teaching] and testifying skills will improve.
You will be better received by and more spiritually impressive to [the people you teach]. … Don’t be satisfied with what we call a missionary vocabulary only.
Stretch yourself in the language, and you will gain greater access to the hearts of the people” (missionary satellite broadcast, Aug.
1998).
You are not alone in learning your mission language.
Whenever the Lord gives a commandment, He provides a way to accomplish it (see
1 Nephi 3:7
).
Seek His help.
Be dedicated in your study.
In time you will acquire the language skills necessary to fulfill your purpose as a missionary.
Learn English
If you do not speak English, you should study it as a missionary.
This will bless you during your mission and throughout your life.
Learning English will enable you to help build the Lord’s kingdom in additional ways and will be a blessing for you and your family.
Many of the suggestions found in this chapter will help you.
Focus particularly on the following:
Set a goal to speak English with your companion.
If your companion already knows English and is trying to learn your language, you might choose to speak English in the apartment and the mission language when you go out.
With your companion, read from the Book of Mormon in English.
You might also choose to alternate: You read a verse in English, and then your companion reads a verse in the mission language.
Correct each other’s pronunciation and intonation.
Ask your mission president for suggestions on a simple English grammar text if you do not already have one.
Principles of Language Learning
This section describes principles to help you study and learn the language more effectively.
Take responsibility.
Regularly create or adjust your language learning goals and study plan.
Strive to use the language at every opportunity.
Make your study meaningful.
Ask yourself: Why am I studying this?
How will it help me communicate better?
Relate what you study to real-life situations and daily activities.
Study parts of the language that will help you say what you want to say.
For example, if there is a scripture story you would like to include in your teaching, learn the vocabulary and grammar necessary to relate it.
Seek to communicate.
Seek to find an appropriate balance between studying grammar and the structure of the language and learning through your daily activities.
There is no substitute for talking with native speakers of the language.
Learn new concepts thoroughly.
You will be able to recall and effectively use language principles if you review regularly what you have studied and if you practice it again in new situations.
Create a Language Study Plan
A language study plan helps both new and experienced missionaries focus on what they can do each day to improve their ability to speak the mission language.
Your plan will include what you will do during your language study time and what you will do throughout the day.
As needed, use some of your language study time to create or adjust your study plan.
Then during your language study time, learn the language needed for the day’s activities.
The following guidelines will help you in creating your own language learning plan:
Set goals.
Weekly and daily goals will help you learn your mission language.
Focus your goals on improving your ability to communicate and teach during scheduled activities, such as teaching appointments, finding opportunities, and ward council meetings.
Review your progress in achieving your language goals.
Ask yourself what you can do to communicate with greater clarity and power during your scheduled activities.
Select which tools to use.
Review the following language tools and determine which you can use to achieve your goals:
Image
Spanish study materials
The standard works in your mission language.
The lessons in your mission language.
A pocket-size dictionary.
A small grammar book.
MTC language materials.
Note cards.
A pocket notebook.
Approved apps for language learning.
Other Church materials in your mission language.
Memorize vocabulary and phrases.
Identify vocabulary and phrases that will help you accomplish your goals.
Your language plan might include the following ideas:
Identify vocabulary and phrases in the lessons, brochures, scriptures, and other Church publications that you can use in teaching.
Record words or phrases you do not know in a notebook.
Carry a small dictionary and look up these words.
Carry note cards to study throughout the day.
Write a word or phrase on one side and the definition on the opposite side.
Set aside the words you learn.
Work on the remaining words until you know them all.
Use new words and phrases in sentences during personal study, teaching, and throughout the day.
Practice pronunciation by saying new words and phrases out loud.
Memorize key scriptures in the mission language.
Memorize simple statements from the lessons or approved resources that convey key gospel principles.
Find other ways to express these ideas.
Learn grammar.
Use your language tools to identify grammar principles that will help you achieve your goals.
If needed, ask your companion, an experienced missionary, or a member for help.
Consider incorporating some of the following ideas:
Use the grammar text you received at the missionary training center or a text approved by your mission president to help you understand the grammar and sentence patterns found in the lessons, approved resources, and scriptures.
Prepare sentences to use in your scheduled activities that apply these grammar principles.
Practice speaking and writing the sentences.
Pay attention to word order in the language and to words and their parts.
Look for opportunities to practice and apply the grammar that you study each day.
Actively listen.
Consider incorporating the following:
Listen carefully to native speakers.
Imitate what you hear.
When you hear something you do not understand, write it down and find out what it means.
Practice using the vocabulary or sentence pattern.
When listening, identify vocabulary and patterns that you have recently learned.
When you hear a phrase expressed differently from the way you would say it, write it down and practice it.
However, as a servant of the Lord, always use appropriate language, not slang.
Make a list of things people might say to you during your planned activities.
Look up words and phrases related to these responses.
Plan and practice ways that you could respond.
Improve your ability to read and write.
Read the Book of Mormon in your mission language to learn vocabulary and phrases and to practice grammar, pronunciation, and fluency.
There is great power in using the scriptures in your language study.
Also consider the following ideas:
Learn to read and write the alphabet, script, or characters of your language.
For character-based writing systems, focus on reading skills, such as scripture reading, that will help you when you teach.
Read out loud from the Book of Mormon, other scriptures, or Church magazines in your mission language.
Pay attention to unfamiliar vocabulary, phrases, and grammar.
If you do not understand a word, try to understand its meaning from the context of the passage before you look it up.
Add the word to your note cards.
Use your native-language and mission-language scriptures side-by-side if necessary.
Have someone coach you on pronunciation, intonation, and pauses as you read.
Practice writing in your mission language—for example, personal notes and reminders, letters, thank-you notes, and notes of encouragement.
Write your testimony in copies of the Book of Mormon that you distribute.
Ask others to help you.
Consider incorporating the following ideas:
Image
Guatemalan mother
If your companion is a native speaker, take advantage of this great opportunity by asking questions frequently and seeking feedback.
Ask your companion and native speakers to correct you and to suggest ways to improve.
If they use a word you don’t understand, ask them to define it for you.
Children and grandparents are often willing to help.
Invite those you teach to help you.
Explain, “I’m learning your language.
Please help me.
If I struggle to find a word, please help me with it.”
Do not hesitate to ask for specific help: “How do you say … ?” “How do you pronounce … ?” “What does __________ mean?” “Would you please repeat that?” Write down the answers and study them.
Ask members to quiz you on your note cards or vocabulary lists and to help you in reading scriptures aloud.
Evaluate and revise your study plan.
Review your study plan each week to evaluate if it is working.
Invite your companion and mission leaders to suggest areas for improvement.
Use your mission language at every opportunity.
Speak the language with your companion as much as possible throughout the day.
Pray in the language privately and publicly to learn the appropriate language for prayer and to learn to speak what is in your heart.
Do not be afraid of making mistakes.
Everyone who learns a new language makes mistakes.
People will understand, and they will appreciate your efforts to learn their language.
Memorizing phrases and scriptures will help you avoid mistakes, but you should not use lengthy memorized or prepared scripts as a way to avoid mistakes.
Activity: Personal Study
Using the guidelines described above, create a study plan.
Review your plan with your companion or a mission leader.
Learn with Your Companions
Help your companions experience success and gain confidence in learning the language as rapidly as possible.
Sincerely and frequently compliment your companions and other missionaries on their progress.
Be sensitive not to say or do anything that might weaken their confidence, but don’t protect them so much that they do not learn.
Do not withhold help when it is needed.
Give them many opportunities to teach and testify successfully.
Consider the following ideas for learning with your companions:
Teach each other the grammar and vocabulary you have learned.
Practice teaching in the mission language.
At first, new missionaries might teach very simply, share a simple testimony, and recite memorized scriptures.
As their confidence and ability increase, they will be able to participate more fully in teaching others.
Practice using the language to communicate in common missionary situations.
Give each other simple and practical feedback with kindness.
It is also important that you receive feedback without taking offense.
Note how a more experienced missionary helped his companion in the following true account.
I had just arrived in my second area when my companion told me it was my turn to give the spiritual thought at a dinner appointment.
I was more than just a little scared.
My first companion had always been happy to do the teaching, and I was used to giving my small portion of the lesson and then listening as he would then expound and answer any questions.
I tried to convince my companion that he should give the spiritual thought, but he encouraged me to take the assignment.
I practiced with his help.
When the moment arrived, I opened my scriptures and read from
3 Nephi 5
and
7
.
I struggled but managed to explain why I felt my chosen passages were significant, and I was relieved when I was done.
When a question was asked, I looked to my companion to answer, but he didn’t open his mouth.
That was when I amazed myself by coming up with an answer in understandable French.
I was even more amazed that the member didn’t seem to sense that I was insecure about my communication skills.
I gained confidence and realized that my French was better than I gave myself credit for.
The weeks passed, and my companion continued to let me teach—even when I didn’t think I could do it, even when he probably wondered if I could do it.
And because he encouraged me to speak, listen, and teach, my language skills began to progress more quickly, and I felt that I had become a tool of our Father in Heaven instead of being simply another elder’s quiet companion.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
If you are working with a new missionary, how can you better help your companion learn the language?
If you are a new missionary, what kind of help might you ask from your senior companion?
Culture and Language Learning
Culture and language are closely related.
Understanding the culture will help explain why language is used the way it is.
Strive to understand the culture of the people so that you can communicate the unique aspects of the message of the Restoration in a way that will be clear to them.
One of the greatest things you can do to gain people’s trust and love is to embrace their culture in appropriate ways.
Many great missionaries have done so (see
1 Corinthians 9:20–23
).
Seek to have the people feel comfortable with you and your language.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Imagine that you are serving a mission in Asia.
You are preparing to teach someone about resurrection, and you know that Buddhists believe in reincarnation.
How will you teach about resurrection in such a way that the person will understand that this doctrine is distinctly different from reincarnation?
What words and phrases might you need to learn to accomplish this task?
Think about the cultural and religious background of the people you teach.
Identify an aspect of their background that might lead them to misunderstand the doctrine of the gospel.
Plan ways to teach this doctrine clearly.
The Gift of Tongues
Gifts of the Spirit are real.
The gift of tongues and the gift of the interpretation of tongues can help you as much or more than any other single thing to speak and understand the language of the people in your mission.
The gift of tongues and the interpretation of tongues has many manifestations, including speaking and understanding an unknown language as an endowment of the Spirit.
It also includes speaking and understanding a known language with or without the aid of study.
Today, the gift of tongues and the interpretation of tongues is most often manifested in Spirit-enhanced learning and studying to speak and understand a mission language.
Additionally, the Holy Ghost can manifest the truth of your testimony even though a language barrier may exist between you and those you teach.
Likewise, the Holy Ghost can bring words and phrases to your remembrance and help you understand what people are saying from their hearts as you teach people in a mission language.
For the most part, you will not obtain these gifts without effort; you need to actively seek them.
Part of seeking the gift of tongues is to labor and struggle and to do all you can to learn the language.
Be patient as you prayerfully study and practice the language.
Trust that the Spirit will help you as you live the way you should and do your very best.
Have faith that you can have the gift of tongues in its true and most comprehensive sense.
When you feel you are struggling to express yourself as clearly as you would like, remember that the Spirit is able to speak to the hearts of all of God’s children.
President Thomas S.
Monson taught: “There is one language … that is common to each missionary—the language of the Spirit.
It is not learned from textbooks written by men of letters, nor is it acquired through reading and memorization.
The language of the Spirit comes to him who seeks with all his heart to know God and keep His divine commandments.
Proficiency in this language permits one to breach barriers, overcome obstacles, and touch the human heart” (“
The Spirit Giveth Life
,”
Ensign,
June 1997, 2).
Remember This
Study the doctrine and lessons you teach in your native language first.
Learn to express this doctrine and your feelings about it in your mission language.
Create a language study plan and regularly try new ideas as you seek to improve in your mission language.
Seek the guidance of the Spirit to help you understand and communicate with the people of your mission.
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Review the suggestions in this chapter.
Identify a suggestion you have not yet tried, and set a goal to try it for the next few days.
At your next district council, ask an experienced missionary with good language ability what he or she has done to learn the language.
Read and discuss the following statement by Elder Richard G.
Scott: “Where … national traditions or customs conflict with the teachings of God, set them aside.
Where traditions and customs are in harmony with His teachings, they should be cherished” (“
Removing Barriers to Happiness
,”
Ensign,
May 1998, 87).
Think about the ways that the culture in the area where you serve is different from your own.
Make a list of the differences.
Then cross out any that conflict with the teachings of the gospel.
Consider each of those that remain, and think about how you can make these customs your own.
Build a study plan to prepare you to do one of the following things in your mission language:
Tell the Joseph Smith story.
Summarize
3 Nephi 11
.
Summarize
Alma 32
.
Tell the story of Nephi and the brass plates (see
1 Nephi 3–5
).
Explain dispensations.
Share a personal experience.
Make note cards for words you don’t know in one of the lessons.
Carry them with you until you have learned them all.
Companion Study
Practice teaching each other the missionary lessons in your mission language.
Ask your companion to listen to your pronunciation and help you improve.
Select scripture stories or passages you would like to use in teaching.
Practice summarizing them in your own words.
Review the ideas in this chapter.
Discuss which suggestions you could use in companion study during the next week.
If you are training a new missionary, take note of situations when your companion is not understood.
Make a list of relevant words, phrases, or grammar that would help your companion.
Explain and practice how to use what is on the list in upcoming, planned activities.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite native speakers to the meeting.
Arrange for the missionaries to teach them in small groups.
Ask the native speakers to take notes and give feedback on the missionaries’ language.
Assign one or two missionaries ahead of time to tell about successes they have had in studying the language.
Have them share their ideas.
Assign an experienced missionary to briefly present some part of the language that is usually difficult for missionaries.
Present examples of good usage, and have the missionaries practice them.
Have missionaries who are native to the culture share helpful insights.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Periodically interview or converse with missionaries in the language they are learning.
Ask local priesthood leaders for ideas on how missionaries can improve their language.
Identify the most common mistakes made by missionaries learning your mission language.
Give instruction in zone conference or mission leadership council on correcting these mistakes.
Teach missionaries the doctrine of spiritual gifts.
Observe your missionaries when they teach in the language.
Look for opportunities to use the language with your missionaries.
Notes
8
How Do I Use Time Wisely?
Image
Christ with the Apostles
Consider This
How can goals help me be a more effective missionary?
What should be the focus of my goals?
What are my planning tools and resources, and how do I use them?
Why is the area book important?
How do I conduct weekly and daily planning sessions?
How will I know if my goals and plans are helping to further the Lord’s work?
You are assigned to do the Lord’s work in a specific area.
He wants you to watch over your area with love and great care.
Your purpose is to help others come unto Him through faith, repentance, baptism and confirmation, and enduring to the end.
Do all you can to leave your area stronger than you found it.
Meaningful goals and careful planning will help you accomplish what the Lord requires of you.
As you care for the people in your assigned area, you will account to Him and to your mission leaders.
Your missionary call letter states: “As you devote your time and attention to serving the Lord, leaving behind all other personal affairs, the Lord will bless you with increased knowledge and testimony of the Restoration and of the truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ.” This chapter will help you know how goal setting, planning, and accountability can help many people receive the restored gospel.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Read
Jacob 5:11–13, 61–64, 74–75
, and answer these questions:
How does the Lord feel about His children?
What kind of effort does the Lord require of His servants?
Key Indicators for Conversion
Perhaps you have wondered which of your many duties are the most important.
To be able to answer this question, you must understand your purpose and know how effective use of time can help you fulfill this purpose.
Your purpose is to invite others to come unto Christ by helping them receive the restored gospel through faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, repentance, baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
Key indicators have been identified by Church leaders to help you focus on this purpose.
As you focus on these indicators, you will help people progress toward baptism, confirmation, continued activity in the Church, and lasting conversion.
Key Indicators to Record and Report
People baptized and confirmed
People with a baptismal date
People who attended sacrament meeting
New people being taught
These indicators identify events and conditions that show a person’s progress toward enduring conversion.
A brief description of each key indicator is given below.
People baptized and confirmed:
Each convert who has received the ordinances of baptism and confirmation.
People with a baptismal date:
Each person who has agreed to be baptized and confirmed on specific dates.
People who attended sacrament meeting:
Each person (not baptized) you are teaching who has attended sacrament meeting.
New people being taught:
The total number of people (not baptized) who have received a lesson and accepted a specific return appointment.
A lesson typically includes a prayer (when appropriate), the teaching of at least one gospel principle or topic, and extending appropriate invitations.
As you set goals and make plans, evaluate what you do in terms of how your efforts will add to the numbers of people represented in each of these key indicators.
Your goal should be to have increasing numbers for every key indicator.
You will do many things that are not described in the key indicators, such as street contacting or personal and companion study.
These important activities contribute to one or more of the key indicators.
For example, when you teach those you find through your own efforts, you add new people to your teaching pool.
Also, the quality of your personal and companion study will improve your ability to teach by the Spirit, blessing the people you are teaching.
The power of your finding and teaching will influence every key indicator.
Evaluate all you do based on whether it adds to the numbers of people in these categories.
If you and your companion cannot see how a missionary activity might help increase the numbers of people in one or more key indicators, you need to question whether the activity is worth your time.
Activity: Companion Study
In your study journal, list every missionary activity you have done in the past three days.
For each activity, determine if it influenced one of the key indicators.
If it did, write
yes
beside it.
If it did not, write
no.
For each activity with a
yes,
describe how it had an impact.
For each activity with a
no,
decide why you did it and whether you will continue to do the activity in the future.
Discuss your list with your companion, and explain why you marked some activities
yes
and some activities
no.
Discuss which activities you may need to stop doing.
The Area Book and Planning and Reporting Tools
Concerning those who were received into the Church by baptism and confirmation in his day, Moroni taught, “Their names were taken, that they might be remembered and nourished by the good word of God, to keep them in the right way” (
Moroni 6:4
).
You have been given tools to help you record important information about the people you teach.
These tools also allow you to share the right amount of information with those who need it, as shown in the following illustration.
Before you record or share information in your planning tools, email, social media, notes, or other communications, ask yourself:
How would I feel if someone shared this kind of information about me with others?
Am I following Church policies and data privacy laws for my area if I record or share this information?
With each form and record, follow the Church data retention and privacy policies in your area.
Image
information pyramid
These tools and all the information needed to do your work are kept in the area book and the Missionary Daily Planner.
In some missions, the area book and planner are printed documents; in others, they are available in digital tools.
Regardless of which you use, the principles for setting goals and making plans, reporting information, and being accountable are the same.
Area Book
The printed area book is organized as follows:
Teaching Area Map
The teaching area map is a map that outlines the boundaries of a particular teaching area.
Progress Records
Progress Record forms are used to report key indicators and coordinate your efforts with ward and stake leaders in missionary coordination and ward council meetings.
People with a Baptism and Confirmation Date
Teaching Record forms are used to help you record appropriate information about the progress of the people you are teaching.
People Being Taught
Teaching Record forms
People with Interest
People with Interest forms enable you to keep a record of people you have contacted or received referrals from.
Media referrals and other referrals are individuals who have been referred to the missionaries after viewing Church media or other Church materials or who have been referred by Church members.
People Taught Previously
Teaching Record forms
Recent Converts and Returning Members
Teaching Record forms
New and Returning Member Progress forms are forms that record the progress of new Church members and those who are returning to Church activity.
Ward and Mission Information
Ward directory
Ward positions list
Schedule of ward and missionary meetings
List of part-member families
Directory of missionaries in your district or zone
Leadership
The Weekly and Monthly Key Indicator Report is where each companionship will submit the requested information weekly using digital tools or through the Missionary Portal.
Missionary Weekly Report forms allow you to briefly share the progress of those you are teaching and any personal matters you wish to share with your mission president.
He is the only person who will read this letter, so please be open with your comments.
Information about the Area
Information about the apartment
Public transportation
Barber or salon
Laundry
Places to shop
Places to avoid
Contacts
The Area Book (Printed or Digital)
Every teaching area has an area book (printed or a digital tool), which becomes the record of your day-to-day efforts.
Update key information daily, and refer to it weekly during your weekly planning session.
Keep it neat, current, and accurate so that any future missionary can build on the inspired service you have given.
As invited, take your area book to interviews, zone conferences, and mission leadership council, where mission leaders can review it and help you know how to use it most effectively.
The Missionary Daily Planner
The Missionary Daily Planner includes the following features:
Five weeks of daily schedules, with a sixth week on an at-a-glance page.
Pages for monthly and weekly goals.
A summary of the planning guidelines; a list of the events that lead to baptism, confirmation, and activity in the Church; lesson plans of the missionary lessons; ideas for finding people to teach; and baptismal interview questions.
A section for information on contacts and for addresses, email addresses, and phone numbers of members and people being taught.
Follow the Church data retention and privacy policies for your mission.
Weekly and Monthly Key Indicator Results page for keeping track of your weekly and monthly results.
Each companionship should access and record this information on the Missionary Portal or through digital tools.
During your weekly planning session, you will write your monthly and weekly goals on the Monthly and Weekly Goals and Plans page of the Missionary Daily Planner.
Use this page of the planner to:
Write your weekly goals for each key indicator and a monthly goal for people baptized and confirmed.
Record actual results for the week.
The results for new people being taught each day are found on the daily schedule.
The total for each week is transferred to the Monthly and Weekly Goals and Plans page.
Set and record goals for what you hope will happen with the people who are most likely to continue to progress toward baptism and confirmation (attend church, read the Book of Mormon, set a baptismal date, and so on).
Write other personal or companion goals.
Each day as you plan and work, you will use the daily schedule.
Use this page to:
Record teaching appointments, meetings, and finding activities.
Plan so that you have meaningful activities for every hour of the day, including backup plans.
List the tasks you need to do (phone calls, people to contact, preparation for lessons, follow-up on commitments, and so on) and what you will study as you prepare for teaching appointments.
Record daily goals and actual results for new people being taught.
How to Set Goals
Goals reflect the desires of our hearts and our vision of what we can accomplish.
Through goals and plans, our hopes are transformed into action.
Goal setting and planning are acts of faith.
Prayerfully set goals that are in harmony with the Savior’s command to “teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost” (
Matthew 28:19
).
Set goals for each key indicator.
You may also set goals for your personal development.
Do everything within your power to achieve your goals while respecting the agency of others.
The ultimate measure of success is not in achieving goals alone but in the service you render and the progress of others.
Goals are a means of helping you bring about much good among Heavenly Father’s children.
They are not to be used to receive recognition.
“I am so thoroughly convinced that if we don’t set goals in our life and learn how to master the techniques of living to reach our goals, we can reach a ripe old age and look back on our life only to see that we reached but a small part of our full potential.
When one learns to master the principles of setting a goal, he will then be able to make a great difference in the results he attains in this life.”
–President M. Russell Ballard
Talk given to Salt Lake Area young adults, Oct.
18, 1981
Carefully considered goals will give you clear direction and will help you fill your days with activities that help people strengthen their faith in the Savior and progress toward baptism, confirmation, and full activity in the Church.
Challenging goals will help you work effectively and lead you to stretch and grow.
Follow the guidelines below as you set goals:
Follow the Spirit.
Focus on the people, keeping in mind the key indicators for conversion.
Although you will use numbers, be able to support your numbers with the names of people where possible.
Be specific and realistic, but set goals that will make you stretch.
Set daily, weekly, and monthly goals.
Goals for key indicators are reported through the Missionary Portal or digital tools.
Set goals for personal and companion study, including language study if you are learning another language.
Measure your progress each day, each week, and each month.
When you fall short of a goal, evaluate your efforts and seek for ways to accomplish the goal.
If needed, adjust your expectations.
Over time your mission president may establish standards of excellence or mission goals intended to raise your vision and increase your faith.
District, zone, and mission standards will help you stretch, work effectively, and reach higher levels of performance.
They are not to be used as quotas that impose specific goals on you and your companion.
Activity: Companion Study
Set weekly goals for each indicator and a monthly goal for people baptized and confirmed.
For each goal, ask yourselves:
Are there names associated with the number?
Is the goal specific?
Is the goal realistic?
Will the goal make us stretch?
Are we committed to this goal?
Discuss each goal.
If necessary, determine how you might revise it and why.
The Weekly Planning Session
Once you have set goals, decide how you will achieve them.
You and your companion should hold a weekly planning session on a day and at a time that is less productive for sharing the gospel.
Your mission president will set the day and time of the weekly planning session.
This weekly planning should not take more than two to three hours to complete.
Your discussion should focus on the needs of people and how to help them progress.
During this weekly planning session, review past goals and set new goals for the coming week and month.
Consider every aspect of your missionary work.
Sunday evening is the recommended time for completing the Weekly and Monthly Key Indicator Report.
If you do not report key indicators automatically or through the Missionary Portal, then a Sunday-evening report provides the most accurate and timely status of the mission because most baptisms and confirmations take place on Saturday or Sunday.
Because the day you hold your weekly planning session is likely to be different from your reporting day, approach your weekly planning with 10 days in mind.
For example, if your weekly planning session is on Thursday, you will review the progress on your goals so far that week, and you will plan what you need to do to achieve these goals through Sunday.
Then, set goals and make plans for the next week from Monday to Sunday.
On Sunday evening you will total and report the results from the past week, and you will have your plan ready for the coming week.
Below is a description of how the planning guidelines apply to a weekly planning session.
As you use these guidelines, notice that you will follow a pattern of first setting goals and then making plans to achieve them.
The plans you make should identify the specific steps you need to take to reach your goals.
Image
missionaries praying
Pray for and seek inspiration.
Before you begin, have your planning tools near, such as the Missionary Daily Planner and area book or digital tools.
Begin your planning session with prayer.
Seek inspiration as you discuss the needs of people and plan how to serve them and help them progress in the gospel.
Pray specifically for those you are teaching.
Have the faith to ask Heavenly Father to bless them with answers to their prayers, with a desire to attend church, and so forth.
Set goals and make plans for people to be baptized and confirmed in the coming week.
Review the Teaching Record for each person who is committed to be baptized or confirmed in the coming week.
Discuss the arrangements you need to make for baptismal interviews, services, and confirmations.
Using the Teaching Record, discuss any commitments these people may be struggling with and how you can help them.
Plan to make daily contact with them.
Discuss how you can help the ward mission leader coordinate with the bishop for their confirmations in sacrament meeting.
Set goals and make plans for people with a baptismal date.
Review the Teaching Record for each person who will be baptized in the coming weeks.
Talk about lessons you need to teach them.
Consider how you can help them prepare for baptism and confirmation.
Discuss why someone might not have been baptized on their scheduled day.
Carefully consider and discuss their needs.
Set new goals and make plans that will help them progress toward a specific day and time when they can enter into the covenant of baptism and receive the ordinance of confirmation.
On your Teaching Record, record the principles you plan to teach and the commitments you will help them keep.
Determine what you can do to help them receive these lessons and keep these commitments.
Set goals and make plans to help people attend sacrament meeting.
Review the Teaching Record for each person, and discuss his or her attendance at sacrament meeting.
For people who are attending sacrament meeting regularly, discuss what you need to do to help them continue to have a spiritually uplifting experience.
For those who have never attended sacrament meeting, who have attended only once, or who attend occasionally, discuss what might be keeping them from coming.
For example, they might need help with transportation, they may be afraid or unfamiliar with Church services, or they may have had a negative experience in the past.
Discuss what you can do to help them overcome these barriers.
Set goals for the number of people you plan to have in the next sacrament meeting.
Plan who will take these people to church, who will greet them, and who will sit with them during meetings.
Plan to contact quorum and auxiliary leaders and any teachers responsible for the classes the visitors will attend.
Plan to inform the bishop.
On the Progress Record, list ways the ward council can help.
Make plans for what you need to do on each day of the week to prepare these people to attend.
Set goals and make plans for lessons to be taught to people who are progressing.
Review the Teaching Record for each person who was taught with a member present.
Talk about how you feel they are receiving the message.
Review the commitments and events from the Teaching Record that they are striving to keep or complete.
Discuss how to help ward members and the ward council remain involved in their progress.
Set goals for the lessons you will teach; the commitments you will help them keep, especially attending church, studying the Book of Mormon, and praying; and important experiences you will help them have over the next several weeks.
Review the Teaching Record for each person who was taught without a member present.
This may be someone you found through your own efforts.
Discuss which priesthood or auxiliary leader could be invited to friendship them.
Review the lessons you will teach and the commitments you will help them keep.
Set goals for the lessons you will teach, how you will involve members, and how you will help these people attend sacrament meeting.
Record these goals on the Teaching Record, and make the necessary plans.
Set goals and make plans for lessons to be taught to everyone else you are teaching.
Review the Teaching Record for each person who is not progressing.
Discuss why they are not keeping commitments.
Discuss how you will involve priesthood and auxiliary leaders in friendshipping these people.
Discuss many of the same items suggested in step 5.
Set goals and make plans to help them progress.
Write these goals on the Teaching Record.
Set goals and make plans to contact and teach referrals received from members, missionaries, Church headquarters, and others.
Review the People with Interest forms.
Review all the referrals you have received.
Review the referrals you have not yet contacted.
Set goals and make plans to contact as many referrals as possible during the week—preferably all the referrals.
Referrals should be contacted within 24 hours, if at all possible.
Contact the person who submitted the referral to learn more and to plan how you might work together with them.
Discuss how you might approach each person or family and what message you might teach.
If the referral is from Church headquarters, discuss how you will teach a gospel message using the video, book, or other material they have requested.
Make sure you have the item they requested.
If appropriate, contact the referral by phone or text message and schedule an appointment.
Discuss what follow-up you should do.
Set goals and make plans to seek more referrals from members and people you are teaching.
Prayerfully identify people you can visit.
Plan how you will help them invite their friends and family members to learn about the restored gospel.
Discuss how you will invite them to participate in missionary work.
Schedule appointments and make necessary plans.
Set goals and make plans for lessons you will teach to recent converts and returning members.
Review the Teaching Record for each recent convert and returning member you are teaching.
Set goals and make plans for lessons you will teach.
Determine how you will help these people attend sacrament meeting and keep other commitments.
Set goals and make plans to find new people to teach.
Review the previous week’s efforts to find new people to teach through referrals, service opportunities, and personal finding activities.
Discuss why some people showed interest in learning more and others did not.
Set goals for how many new people you will find this week.
Identify people who are likely to want to learn more.
Also identify members and part-member families you want to visit, referrals to visit, and service opportunities you will seek.
Plan which finding tools you will use, such as pass-along cards, DVDs, or scriptures.
Also discuss where you will go to contact people, how many people you will contact each day, people you will ask for referrals, people you will visit who have been taught previously, ways the ward council can help, and so on.
Fill in all remaining time with finding activities that will help you achieve your goals.
Set goals and plan to talk to as many people as the Lord puts in your path.
Always strive to find people to teach.
Plan how to work with the ward council.
The bishop is the presiding authority.
Respect and honor his authority.
Under his direction, review the Progress Record used in the previous missionary coordination meeting or ward council.
Discuss assignments you have received from the bishop or ward mission leader, and report on whether you have completed them.
Discuss how to involve others who can help, such as the ward mission leader, priesthood and auxiliary leaders, and other members.
Carefully prepare a
Progress Record for the upcoming ward council meeting or missionary coordination meeting.
Make sure it is accurate, neatly written, and clean.
Set goals and make plans to work in harmony with the ward leaders.
When possible, make copies of the Progress Record for the ward leaders who will attend.
If your mission uses digital tools, an electronic copy of the Progress Record is automatically made available to ward leaders.
Schedule meetings that occur regularly.
In your Missionary Daily Planner or digital tools, schedule meetings that happen regularly, such as district council, zone conferences, mission leadership council, interviews, and Church meetings.
Discuss assignments you need to complete prior to any of these meetings, and add them to your Notes/To Do List.
Conduct companionship inventory.
At the end of your weekly planning session, share with your companion appropriate goals, and ask for his or her help to accomplish them.
Discuss the strength of your relationship with your companion.
Discuss any challenges that may be keeping your companionship from working in unity or from being obedient.
Resolve conflicts.
Share with your companion what you think his or her strengths are.
Ask for suggestions on how you can improve.
If needed, set goals that will improve your relationship.
Conclude with prayer.
Daily Planning Session
With your companion, hold a planning session each morning.
Apply the same principles and guidelines in a daily planning session that you follow in a weekly session but in a simpler way.
Be prayerful as you discuss the lessons or topics you can study during personal and companion study time that will help you with your plan.
Write these topics in the lined space provided on the Daily Goals and Plans page.
Review your daily schedule.
Have a meaningful activity planned for every hour of the day.
During your Sunday planning session, account for the progress of the people you are teaching in order to report to your mission president and finalize your goals for the coming week.
Always pray before leaving your apartment.
Throughout the day, review your goals, plans, and schedule, and make adjustments as needed.
You can tell how effective your daily plans are when you don’t need to ask others, “Now what should I do?”
Accountability
“When performance is measured, performance improves.
When performance is measured and reported, the rate of improvement accelerates.”
–President Thomas S.
Monson
“Thou Art a Teacher Come from God,”
Improvement Era,
Dec.
1970, 101
The principle of accountability is fundamental in God’s eternal plan.
We will all stand before the Lord at the last judgment and give an accounting for what we have done with the opportunities He has given us (see
Alma 5:15–19
;
Doctrine and Covenants 137:9
).
There is much you can learn about accountability on your mission that will benefit you throughout your life.
The principle of accountability will bless you if you:
Approach your goal setting and planning with the idea that you will account for your efforts to your mission leaders and to the Lord through prayer.
Feel personal responsibility for the sacred trust the Lord has given you.
Set meaningful goals.
Choose to be proactive in accounting for your work to the Lord and to your mission leaders.
Don’t wait to be asked.
Don’t require others to follow up with you frequently.
Have a desire to account for your labor.
Accept full responsibility for your efforts.
Never blame others for difficult circumstances or lack of progress.
Seek to learn from your leaders, and invite them to suggest ways you can improve.
Be motivated to do your best work.
Accountability does not come only at the end of your mission.
It is a principle that influences how you begin, how you think and feel about the responsibility the Lord has given you, how you approach your work, and how well you endure.
The attitude you have toward your mission experience is a reflection of your love toward your Heavenly Father and His Son and your respect for the priesthood.
As you pray personally and in your companionship, seek inspiration on what you should do each day.
As you follow your plans, pray and ask the Lord for guidance.
Have a prayer in your heart throughout the day that the Spirit will help you know where to go, what to do, and what to say.
Ask yourself, “What more can I do?” In your prayer at the end of the day, give an accounting of your work.
You will give an accounting each week to your mission leaders during your weekly report, during district council, and in other settings throughout the week.
If you are a mission leader, you will receive this information from other missionaries.
Show an interest in their lives and in the lives of those they teach rather than simply in numbers.
Do not use these tools or the information you receive as ways to control or manipulate.
The information you receive through these tools will provide you with opportunities to praise missionaries for their dedication and to see opportunities for future training.
Scripture Study
What does it mean to be accountable?
Doctrine and Covenants 58:26–33
Doctrine and Covenants 101:78
Ezekiel 33:1–6
Why is agency important in accountability?
2 Nephi 2:26–29
Helaman 14:30–31
How should a missionary and a mission leader work together?
Doctrine and Covenants 38:23–25
Hebrews 13:17–18
Remember This
Focus your efforts on your purpose.
Set goals according to the key indicators.
Pray mightily over your goals and plans.
Use the area book, the Missionary Daily Planner, or digital planning tools to help people develop faith, repent, be baptized, receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and endure to the end.
For each key indicator, set goals that help you stretch, exercise faith, and work effectively.
Conduct weekly and daily planning sessions that focus on helping others progress in the gospel.
Account for your efforts to the Lord and to mission leaders.
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
In your study journal, write a one-sentence answer for each of the questions in “Consider This.”
Take a few moments and think about your final day in the mission field.
When that day comes:
What do you want to say you have done as a missionary?
What do you want to have become?
What differences would you want others to notice in you?
In your study journal, write an answer to each of these questions.
Determine what you need to do now to realize these goals.
Write the plans that come to mind.
Companion Study
Using your area book, answer the questions below:
Are all the records current, accurate, and easy to read?
Would a missionary who is new to the area be able to review the area book and know where people are in their spiritual progress and what more needs to be done to help them?
Would a missionary who is new to the area benefit from your efforts to find new people to teach?
Picture yourself presenting your area book to the Lord as you give an accounting of how you have cared for the people in your area.
Would the Lord be pleased with your efforts?
Discuss one person you are teaching.
In your Missionary Daily Planner, locate the page titled “Events That Lead to Baptism, Confirmation, and Activity in the Church.” Select one event, and make a list of everything you need to do in order for this event to happen.
Discuss how you might plan these tasks so that the event can happen at the earliest possible time.
Discuss the following analogy with your companion.
Evaluate how long your “line” is in the water each day.
“None of us should be like the fisherman who thinks he has been fishing all day when in reality he has spent most of his time getting to and from the water, eating lunch, and fussing with his equipment.
Fishing success is related to how long you have your line in the water, not to how long you are away from the apartment.
Some fishermen are away from home for twelve hours and have their line in the water for ten hours.
Other fishermen are away from home for twelve hours and have their line in the water for only two hours.
This last type may wonder why they do not have the same success as others.
“The same principle applies to missionaries, whom the Master called ‘fishers of men.’ A missionary’s line should drop into the fishing water the moment he or she leaves the apartment” (Dallin H.
Oaks, seminar for new mission presidents, June 20, 2000).
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Read one of the following situations to the missionaries.
In small groups, have the missionaries discuss goals and plans that will help the people in these examples progress toward baptism and confirmation.
Have each group share their ideas.
Situation one:
You met Larry and Beth when they were giving service at a food kitchen.
You have taught them one lesson, and now they want to know more.
They do not know any members of the Church.
Beth is Christian, and Larry does not claim any particular religion.
They are not married but do live together.
Larry works from 4:00 p.m.
to 12:00 midnight.
Beth works daytime hours.
Situation two:
Steve has taken all the lessons and attends church at least twice a month.
He believes that Joseph Smith is a prophet and that the Book of Mormon is true.
His family members are devout Catholics and do not approve of his meetings with the missionaries.
Situation three:
Jill is a college student.
She has a friend who is a member of the Church.
Her member friend invited her to meet with you.
You have taught her two lessons.
Her member friend was present at both.
She has not attended church yet and is so busy with her homework that it is difficult for her to read from the Book of Mormon.
Invite missionaries to share experiences where, through setting goals and making plans, they have been able to help people:
Develop greater faith in the Savior.
Repent and make changes that have brought them closer to God.
Receive the covenant of baptism and confirmation.
Come back to the Church and renew their baptismal covenant.
Divide the missionaries into three groups.
Explain that each group will receive an important assignment.
Then give each group one of the following tasks:
Open a new teaching area.
Prepare a zone conference training session on introducing the Book of Mormon to people who are interested in learning more.
Integrate a family you are teaching into the ward.
The family has three children: an 8-year-old girl, a 12-year-old girl, and a 16-year-old boy.
Tell the missionaries they have eight minutes to develop a plan.
One of the missionaries should write the plan down, including the daily activities.
Have each group present its plan.
After each presentation, ask:
What did the missionaries need to know in each situation?
What might the result be if you do not plan meaningful activities or do not plan at all?
After all the presentations, ask:
How are planning and goal setting acts of love?
acts of faith?
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Ask missionaries to bring their area books to zone conference, to mission leadership council, or to interviews.
In addition to reviewing the area books yourself, consider having mission leaders or your companion review the area books.
Occasionally observe missionaries’ weekly or daily planning sessions.
Occasionally conduct interviews in missionary apartments.
As you do so, have your companion or the assistants to the president review missionaries’ area books and daily planners.
Frequently review missionaries’ daily planners.
Occasionally attend a ward council meeting.
Notes
9
How Do I Find People to Teach?
Image
Christ carrying lamb
© 1990 Del Parson.
Do not copy.
Consider This
What does it mean to “find them that will receive you” (
Doctrine and Covenants 42:8
)?
How do I increase my faith to find people to teach?
Why should I involve members in my finding efforts?
What is the role of member, missionary, and Church headquarters referrals?
What is the relationship between finding and teaching?
What are some ideas for finding people to teach that I have not yet tried?
Developing the Faith to Find
The doctrine and principles in this chapter will strengthen your faith that the Lord is preparing people to receive you and the restored gospel.
He will lead you to them or He will lead them to you.
Finding is different in different parts of the world.
Missionaries and mission presidents need to adapt to circumstances.
Despite differences, however, the principles for finding are universal.
The Family of God.
All people on the earth were members of God’s family in the premortal life (see
Acts 17:26–29
;
Hebrews 12:9
).
We are part of God’s family in this life and can enjoy even greater blessings as members of His family in the life to come.
We are all brothers and sisters in the family of God.
This knowledge gives us a sense of identity and belonging.
It gives us reason to hope for eternal life in God’s presence.
We understand these basic truths because of the Restoration.
Teaching restored truths to your brothers and sisters is your responsibility and blessing.
Like Alma seeking to help the apostate Zoramites, you can pray: “O Lord, wilt thou grant unto us that we may have success in bringing them again unto thee in Christ.
Behold, O Lord, their souls are precious … ; therefore, give unto us, O Lord, power and wisdom that we may bring these, our brethren, again unto thee” (
Alma 31:34–35
).
“Find Them That Will Receive You.”
You are to build up the Church by finding “them that will receive you” (
Doctrine and Covenants 42:8
).
Such people will recognize that you are the Lord’s servants.
They will be willing to act on your message.
Many of these people have been “kept from the truth [only] because they know not where to find it” (
Doctrine and Covenants 123:12
).
Usually you do not know who these people are.
They may not immediately recognize that you are the Lord’s servants.
They may not understand that greater peace, direction, and purpose in life will come through the restored gospel than from anything else.
They often do not realize that they are looking for the restored gospel until they have found it.
For example, one convert said, “When I heard the gospel, it filled a hole in my heart that I didn’t know was there.” Another said, “I have finished the search I didn’t know I was on.”
Wherever you are assigned to serve, remember that the Lord has “suffered you to come unto this place; for thus it was expedient in [Him] for the salvation of souls.” Work effectively to “lift up your voices unto this people; speak the thoughts that [the Lord] shall put in your hearts.” If you do, you will receive the promise that “you shall not be confounded before men,” and “it shall be given you … in the very moment, what ye shall say” (
Doctrine and Covenants 100:4–6
).
Finding by the Spirit is as important as teaching by the Spirit.
As in teaching, your efforts in finding will be effective if you are guided by the Spirit.
Have faith that you will know what to teach and what to do to find those who will receive you.
Activity: Companion Study
Many of the members you visit may be converts to the Church.
Ask them how they came in contact with the Church and how they came to recognize that the missionaries were teaching them the truth.
Summarize their experiences in your study journal.
Scripture Study
How are God’s children prepared and led to the restored gospel?
Alma 13:24
Alma 16:16–17
Doctrine and Covenants 29:7
Doctrine and Covenants 33:6
Doctrine and Covenants 84:45–47, 88
Doctrine and Covenants 136:32–33
Talk with Everyone
Image
missionaries talking
While the Prophet Joseph Smith was traveling with a group of missionaries on the Missouri River, the Lord revealed, “It is not needful for … mine elders to be moving swiftly … whilst the inhabitants on either side are perishing in unbelief” (
Doctrine and Covenants 61:3
).
As you move swiftly to planned activities, pray for the ability to see unplanned opportunities to serve and teach those who may be “perishing in unbelief.” Pray for the spiritual sensitivity to recognize
opportunities.
You will find that God will place in your path His children who are being prepared to receive the restored gospel.
Nothing happens in missionary work until you find someone to teach.
Talk with as many people as you can each day.
It is natural to be somewhat apprehensive about talking to people, but you can pray for the faith and strength to be more bold in opening your mouth to proclaim the restored gospel.
Try applying the following ideas as you seek to talk with everyone you meet:
Trust the Spirit to put into your heart and mind what to teach.
Listen sincerely to what people say to you.
Be warm, authentic, friendly, and cheerful.
Offer to help.
Talk to people about their families.
Help them see how the restored gospel can be a blessing to their families.
Offer to help them find the names of grandparents, great-grandparents, or other ancestors.
Enlist the help of ward temple and family history consultants.
Invite everyone to learn about the restored gospel.
Offer pass-along cards.
Ask for the names of people’s acquaintances who might be interested in your message.
As you read the following true account, look for how the man was prepared to receive the missionaries and how the missionaries used an unplanned opportunity to teach him the gospel.
As a child, I was never taught to read the Bible.
I went to church on Sundays, but I contributed nothing and felt nothing in return.
I was disillusioned. … I searched for … God—wanting to know if He even existed.
I thirsted to know Him and His words.
But I could not seem to find what I sought.
There were moments when I felt close to quenching my thirst.
When I held my first child, a daughter, in my arms for the first time, I had a feeling that God really did exist.
Many years later, when her sister was born, I experienced the same feeling. … Most of the time, however, an inexplicable tiredness weighed upon my soul.
I was spiritually thirsty and could find no place to drink.
In April 1994 I was living in the city of Monterrey, Mexico, earning a living as a taxi driver.
One day it rained for hours, sending water cascading down the mountainsides.
After driving around in the rain for hours, I found myself in a little town about eight kilometers (five miles) from Monterrey.
It was about … nearly time to go home.
Suddenly I saw two young men on foot.
They were wearing dark trousers and white shirts, and they looked drenched from head to foot.
When I approached them, I opened the door of the taxi and called, “Get in!
I’m going to Monterrey.”
The taller one … replied, “We don’t have any money.”
“No charge,” I replied.
They quickly got into the taxi.
As I drove, we talked.
They asked if they could share a message about Jesus Christ with me.
I agreed and gave them my address.
When I got home, I woke my wife and told her about the two young men. “What a coincidence,” I said. “One is Mexican and the other is American, and they are both named Elder.”
“Elder means missionary,” my wife answered, knowing just a little about the Church.
From deep within me, I felt something stir.
These young men had left a feeling of exquisite wonder in my heart.
I felt that I was close to finding the water that would quench my thirst, that it was within reach.
The missionaries came to our home on 5 June, and I was happy to listen to them.
Two weeks later, on 19 June, I was baptized.
My wife was baptized four months later, in October [, as was my daughter].
In December 1995 we were sealed as a family in the Mexico City Mexico Temple for this life and for eternity.
Now we are a family enjoying harmony, peace, and happiness.
We know who we worship.
We know where we came from and where we are going.
We love God’s word, especially the Book of Mormon, and we love His Church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Through these gifts we have found that well of living water the Savior spoke of to the woman of Samaria: “Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life” (
John 4:14
). [Victor Manuel Cabrera, “
Thirsting for the Living Water
,”
Ensign,
Aug.
2001, 60–61]
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
How had the man been prepared for the restored gospel?
What would have happened if the elders had never opened their mouths to share a gospel message?
Review what you did yesterday.
Did you talk with as many people as possible?
If not, make plans and set goals to do so today.
Scripture Study
What does the Lord say about opening your mouth?
What should you teach?
What are you promised?
Doctrine and Covenants 24:12
Doctrine and Covenants 28:16
Doctrine and Covenants 33:7–15
Doctrine and Covenants 60:2–3, 7–8
Teach When You Find, Find When You Teach
Finding and teaching are related, connected activities.
When you meet people, be prepared to teach brief summaries of restored truth so that the Holy Ghost can bear witness that you are the servants of the Lord.
In many situations, you will need to be able to share a message in a minute or less.
People are accustomed to short, powerful statements.
For example, you may testify of the message of the Restoration in just two or three sentences:
After centuries of being lost, original truths of God (the gospel of Jesus Christ) have been restored by a loving God through a living prophet.
We have evidence of this that you can hold in your hands, read, ponder in your heart, and pray about to learn its truth for yourself.
Will you allow us to …
If a little more time is available, you might say more:
Our message is simple.
God is our Father.
We are His children.
We are part of His family.
He loves us.
From the beginning of the world, He has followed a pattern of love and concern.
Many times He has reached out in love to reveal the gospel of Jesus Christ so that His children can know how to return to Him.
He has revealed it to prophets such as Adam, Noah, Abraham, and Moses.
But some people have repeatedly chosen to reject that gospel.
Two thousand years ago, Jesus Christ Himself taught His gospel.
Incredibly, people even rejected Jesus.
Whenever people disregard or distort true doctrine and ordinances, God withdraws His authority to administer the Church.
Our invitation to you is to add to the truths you already treasure.
Consider the evidence that our Heavenly Father has again reached out to His children in love and revealed the true doctrine and ordinances to a prophet.
This prophet’s name is Joseph Smith.
The evidence of this glorious truth is found in a book—the Book of Mormon.
You can hold it in your hands, read it, and ponder its truth in your mind and heart.
Develop the habit of beginning to teach and testify as you meet people.
You will find more people to teach as you testify and allow them to feel the power of the Holy Ghost.
Whatever your initial approach, refer quickly and simply to the Restoration of the gospel, for this is our unique message to the world.
Those you teach often have friends or relatives who are prepared to receive the restored gospel.
In all teaching situations—such as finding, teaching people, and working with members—ask, “Who do you know who would be interested in and benefit from this message?” After receiving a referral, ask, “Who else can benefit from our message?” Do not hesitate to bring this up again and again in later meetings.
As those you teach experience the blessings of the gospel, their desire to share it will increase (see
1 Nephi 8:12
).
They will often make new friends while learning the gospel.
Missionaries who apply this principle usually have many people to teach.
Activity: Companion Study
Prepare a one-minute message based on one of the lessons.
Think of ways to teach this lesson in a finding setting.
Determine how you can quickly connect this message to the Restoration.
Share the message with your companion.
Set a goal to teach this message at an appropriate time today to add someone new to your teaching pool.
Review a list of people you are currently teaching.
Make a list of those you have asked for referrals and those you have not asked.
Practice how you will extend a referral invitation to those in each group.
In your planner, make a note to extend this invitation in your next visits.
Addressing the Importance of the Family
Image
sister missionaries talking
The Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ blesses families and individuals.
By living the principles of the restored gospel, families and individuals are strengthened and can experience peace, joy, and a sense of belonging and identity.
Addressing the importance of the family with those you meet each day will help you find people to teach.
Most people have a natural interest in families.
In many finding situations, you can quickly relate what most people know about the family to the message of the Restoration.
When finding, you might say something like the following:
There is nothing more important to us than our families.
Our family ties us to one another, gives us a name, and helps us feel needed and loved.
From our families we inherited personality traits, attributes, and physical characteristics, giving us some unique identity.
Having a strong, happy family is the highest priority for many people throughout the world.
Accomplishing this goal is often difficult.
Raising children and having a strong marriage in today’s world can almost seem impossible at times with the evils that are all around us.
You could then make a transition to the message of the Restoration:
The feelings of love and concern that we have for our families are eternal and rooted deep within our souls.
They are centered in our relationship with God.
You have been part of God’s family since before you were born.
He is our Father.
Because He is our Father, we are brothers and sisters.
Heavenly Father wants us to return to live with Him as part of His family.
Families here on earth are a tie to God’s family.
Families can live together after this life.
We know this because after centuries of being lost, true doctrine and ordinances such as baptism by immersion have been restored to the earth by our loving Heavenly Father through a living prophet.
These restored truths not only help us understand our place in God’s family, but they are the greatest hope we have for a strong, happy family in this life.
May we teach you more about …
The same thing can be done with other topics, such as happiness, adversity, the purpose of life, or death.
Whatever your finding approach, remember to connect it quickly to our unique message to the world.
The Importance of Members
Work with members of the Church to find people to teach.
The ideal situation is when members invite others to be taught and are present for the teaching.
When members do this, more people are baptized and remain active in the Church.
Association with members is important because it softens people’s hearts and often leads them to learn more about the restored gospel.
This often means that they are brought into the circle of friends of Church members, including active and returning members, recent converts, and part-member families.
“After all that has been said, the greatest and most important duty is to preach the Gospel.”
–The Prophet Joseph Smith
Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith
(2007),
330
President Gordon B.
Hinckley taught: “So many of us look upon missionary work as simply tracting.
Everyone who is familiar with this work knows there is a better way.
That way is through the members of the Church.
Whenever there is a member who introduces [someone], there is an immediate support system.
The member bears testimony of the truth of the work.
He is anxious for the happiness of his … friend.
He becomes excited as that friend makes progress in learning the gospel.
“The full-time missionaries may do the actual teaching, but the member, wherever possible, will back up that teaching with the offering of his home to carry on this missionary service.
He will bear sincere testimony of the divinity of the work.
He will be there to answer questions when the missionaries are not around.
He will be a friend to the convert who is making a big and often difficult change. … The process of bringing new people into the Church is not the responsibility alone of the missionaries.
They succeed best when members become the source from which new [people] are found” (“
Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep
,”
Ensign,
May 1999, 105–6).
The starting point in building strong relationships with members is the bishop.
Offer to help and serve in any righteous way that he asks.
Regularly ask yourself, “Am I a blessing or a burden to the bishop?” Develop a “How can I help?” attitude.
If you will look for opportunities to love, serve, and teach, the bishop and ward members will be more likely to trust you with their family members and friends.
Consider the following excerpt from a letter written by a missionary to his mission president:
Dear President,
The assistants called today telling me I’m being transferred.
I felt that I should write and thank you for sending me to this area.
It seems like it was just yesterday that you were telling me about the challenges that lay ahead.
Our first Sunday confirmed what you told me.
We received a lukewarm welcome to the ward.
The only ray of light that first Sunday was Scott, the new ward mission leader.
He had been transferred to the Air Force base a month earlier and had been serving as ward mission leader for two weeks.
Scott invited us to his home for dinner our first Sunday to discuss what could be done to get the work moving.
After dinner, we knelt in prayer and asked Heavenly Father for His direction.
As we prayed, we felt a sense of peace and determination.
We determined that the best way to move the work forward was to gain the trust of the members.
We decided to follow Ammon’s example and serve them.
We started with the bishop.
Because of the lack of baptisms in the area and the lack of effort from the previous missionaries, he was understandably less than excited at our request to meet with him.
He eventually invited us over to his home for dinner.
We learned that the bishop was preparing to remove the carpet from his living room and restore the hardwood floor found underneath.
We volunteered our help and he accepted.
At the conclusion of the project, the bishop asked us to speak in a sacrament meeting.
We took this as evidence that he was beginning to trust us.
We followed this same pattern of service as we met with other members.
We found opportunities to help them in a variety of simple ways.
When we were not with the members, we were knocking on doors and talking to as many people as we could about the restored gospel.
We were blessed with people to teach, and the members saw us bringing people to church whom we were finding on our own.
The attitude of the whole ward began to change.
There was an increasing excitement about missionary work.
Once the members trusted us, the work hastened.
Many baptisms followed.
Image
missionaries teaching family
Many members of the Church have fears about doing missionary work.
Many are unsure where to begin or what to say.
Many fear that they will lose close friends if they try to share the gospel with them.
There are many ways to help the members.
For example, help build their faith by teaching them the message of the Restoration and other doctrine in the lessons.
Help them feel the Spirit and power of our message.
Strengthening their understanding of the doctrine of Christ will do more to increase their trust in you and to build their excitement to do missionary work than anything else you can do.
Help them understand that offering the restored gospel will flow more naturally out of relationships where they are seeking to love and serve their family members and friends.
Teach them the principles from the “Go About Doing Good” section (see
chapter 1
).
Encourage members to “join in fasting and mighty prayer in behalf of the welfare of the souls of those who [know] not God” (
Alma 6:6
).
In all you do with members, seek to lift and build their faith to help them do missionary work.
In addition to working with active members, seek to find people to teach through part-member families, prospective elders, returning members, and new members.
These members are likely to have many friends of other faiths and be blessed as they share the restored gospel with their family members and friends.
In every visit with members, do all you can to encourage them to:
Pray and follow the Spirit.
Give service.
Develop friendships.
Open their mouths to share the restored gospel.
Invite others to do things to increase their faith in Christ.
Every referral you receive from a member should be treated as something precious.
When a member gives you the name of a friend to call or visit, respond quickly and report the results back to the member.
Invite the member to help you teach.
Ideas for Helping Members
There are many ways to encourage members to become more involved in missionary work.
Consider the following ideas:
Seek the guidance of the bishop and other ward leaders.
See
chapter 13
for additional help in this area.
Teach Church leaders and members the message of the Restoration and other lessons.
Teach them to love and serve their neighbors, friends, and communities.
They can find opportunities to serve at
JustServe.org
.
Encourage them to fast and pray for missionary opportunities.
Encourage them to visit acquaintances who have recently experienced a life-changing event (birth, death in the family, marriage, or recent move).
Invite them to help you teach.
The ideal situation is to have a Church member with you who formerly belonged to the same church as the person you are teaching.
Help them set dates when they will invite their friends to learn about the message of the Restoration.
Show them items they can give others, such as copies of the Book of Mormon, videos, and pass-along cards.
Encourage them to invite their friends to attend church or home evening, to view a Church-produced video, or to participate in a gospel conversation.
Help them practice what they could say to their friends.
Help them know what they might say on social media that could lead to a conversation about the gospel.
Help them understand that as they refer friends to meet with missionaries, they can participate in lessons in person or through technology.
See the
Church’s website
for more information.
Teach them why it is valuable to share the gospel regardless of the outcome.
There are many other ways to help members get more involved.
Seek to add to this list throughout your mission.
Share your ideas with other missionaries.
Activity: Companion Study
With your companion, review what you have done to serve and help the bishop and other leaders and members during the past month.
Discuss and plan what you can do during the upcoming month to develop a stronger relationship with them.
Review the ideas listed in the “
Ideas for Helping Members
” box.
Identify some ideas you have not yet tried.
Using your daily planner or digital tools, make plans and try some of the ideas during the next week.
Member, Missionary, and Church Headquarters Referrals
Referrals are another important resource in finding those being prepared for the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
Referrals may come from members, other missionaries, or Church headquarters.
The Church actively reaches out in many ways to God’s children through efforts such as media advertising, visitors’ centers, historic sites, welfare and humanitarian aid, and the internet.
When you receive a referral, contact the member or missionaries who sent it to you and ask them how you can help the person.
You may invite the member or missionaries (with their mission president’s approval) to participate in teaching the person using available technology.
When you meet someone who is interested in learning more but lives outside your assigned area, introduce the person to the gospel and help him or her prepare to meet members and missionaries where he or she lives.
After you send a referral, work with the missionaries who received the referral to help them begin teaching.
With your mission president’s approval, you may continue to support and fellowship people you refer to help them receive the gospel.
You can also help members share the gospel with people they know.
As members prepare and invite their friends to meet with missionaries, show members how to send a referral, contact the missionaries, and participate in teaching to help ensure the person they refer has a good experience.
Most people who respond to Church media campaigns have agreed to have Church representatives visit and share more about the gospel.
You should view these teaching opportunities as a sacred responsibility.
In some cases, referrals lead you to others whom God is preparing.
If the people you contact are not interested, ask them if they know someone who might be.
Talk with other members of the household and their neighbors as well.
Ask each person who else might be interested in your message.
Perhaps you have been led to this person because someone else in the home or neighborhood is ready for the gospel.
When working with referrals, remember to:
Contact the referring member or missionaries to learn more about how to best help the person.
The referring member or missionaries (with their mission president’s approval) may want to counsel with you or assist you through technology with the teaching.
Attempt to promptly make an initial contact with the referred individual through a call, text, email, or other communication.
Arrange a visit as soon as possible.
If the person does not respond, leave a message and try again later.
Arrange a time to meet in person or by means of technology.
Deliver any requested items.
Identify the individual’s challenges, needs, and interests, and determine how the gospel can help meet those needs.
Share gospel truths from the missionary lessons.
Extend invitations that will build the person’s faith in Christ.
Ask for referrals.
Arrange for a return visit.
If an appointment to meet with someone falls through, work in the surrounding area.
Don’t make reference to the appointment or the name of the referred person when talking to neighbors in the area.
Activity: Companion Study
Locate all the referrals received in your area within the last month.
Identify any people who have not been contacted, and visit them.
Decide which of those who have previously been contacted should be visited again.
Family History and Temple Ordinances
Family history or genealogy provides another way you can find people to teach.
Family history is now one of the most widespread hobbies in the world.
What we sometimes refer to as the spirit of Elijah is “the distinctive influence of the Holy Ghost [that] draws people to identify, document, and cherish their ancestors and family members—both past and present” (David A.
Bednar, “
The Hearts of the Children Shall Turn
,”
Ensign
or
Liahona,
Nov.
2011, 25; see also Russell M.
Nelson, “
A New Harvest Time
,”
Ensign,
May 1998, 34).
Throughout the world, the Spirit is influencing millions of people to search for their ancestors.
People can often feel the Spirit as they talk about families.
Many want a stronger connection with their extended family.
This can lead to a desire to find a connection and identity as part of God’s family.
Ancestors eager for their ordinances are praying for their posterity on earth to accept your teachings and perform those ordinances vicariously for them in the temple.
Determine what types of family history resources are available in your area.
For example, you might provide a copy of the
My Family
booklet or introduce the people you are teaching to a temple and family history consultant or other member who can help them learn about
FamilySearch.org
.
Involve members so that those you are teaching will meet people who can friendship them.
Explain that services on
FamilySearch.org
are offered free of charge.
For many people, family history is about discovering and capturing family stories and photos and recording the dates of important life events.
You can help those you are teaching record this information on
FamilySearch.org
or in the
My Family
booklet.
It is also a good idea to share your own family stories and photos, when appropriate, with those you meet or teach.
As you invite others to share memories of their loved ones, they may feel the Holy Ghost testifying to them about the importance of family in God’s plan.
These moments can lead to natural conversations about the purpose of life, God’s plan of happiness, and the role of the Savior in that plan.
“I hope to see us dissolve the artificial boundary line we so often place between missionary work and temple and genealogical work, because it is the same great redemptive work!”
–President Spencer W.
Kimball
“
The Things of Eternity—Stand We in Jeopardy?
”
Ensign,
Jan.
1977, 3
To get started, consider doing the following:
Discuss with the bishop and ward council your desire to offer help with family history to those you meet each day.
Discuss with ward leaders how to best coordinate this effort:
Is the bishop comfortable with your offering the help of ward members?
Which ward members serve as temple and family history consultants?
How can you best ask these members for help?
If you have a family history center in your area, become familiar with the members who serve there and the best ways to use the center in your work.
Ensure that you have your own FamilySearch.org account, and become familiar with your own family history.
Offer to help people get started with finding out more about their family history, recording their family stories or memories, and organizing their information and photos using the free resources on
FamilySearch.org
.
Use the
My Family
booklet, your own family photos, or
FamilySearch.org
resources as you find people to teach.
Where possible, teach a family history class in a public place or offer one-on-one consultations.
Read the following account related by a senior missionary.
Note the role family history played in the couple’s conversion.
Mildred Schultz was a devout member of her church.
It was no surprise that when the missionaries knocked on her door, she wasted no time in inviting them in so that she could teach them the “truth.” As the missionaries taught, she was touched by the truths of the restored gospel and was baptized.
Throughout the teaching process, her husband, Frank, chose not to listen.
This is where I come into the picture.
The elders introduced us to Sister Schultz.
We helped her begin her family tree and then invited her to meet us at the family history center.
The day came for our meeting, and Frank asked if he might come along so that he could search for his ancestors as well.
Of course, she was thrilled at the prospect, and they headed off to the center.
The elders had planned to meet us there later during the day.
Before they arrived, we showed Frank and Mildred the library and introduced them to Sister Wright.
Sister Wright was the family history specialist, and she offered to help find information about Frank’s father.
She found his name in a book and was also able to provide Frank with a map of Germany that showed the location of his father’s birth.
He was so excited about these discoveries that when the elders came, he invited them to dinner to show them pictures and share his family history.
The Spirit of Elijah had touched and softened his heart and had opened a door for the gospel to fill his life.
That evening, Mildred pondered what she might say to help Frank become more interested in the gospel.
A question came into her mind. “Frank,” she started, “do you want to be with me forever, even after this life is over?
Do you want to have an eternal family?” He quickly said, “Oh, Mildred, of course I do.
How can I do it?” This question is what she had been praying for. “Listen to what the missionaries have to say,” she responded.
He agreed.
As the elders taught, the warmth of the message of the Restoration melted away his doubts and fears.
He readily accepted the truths the missionaries shared.
He accepted the invitation to be baptized.
Frank and Mildred have been strong and active in the Church ever since.
Frank and Mildred worked hard to complete the work so that the saving ordinances could be performed for their family.
It was an exciting day when they were baptized in behalf of their family members.
In the process of getting the temple work done, Brother Schultz had a dream about his father.
He saw his father at the ranch that served as his childhood home.
His father was standing beside his porch rocker, dressed in white and holding his arms out to his son.
Frank awoke from the dream crying.
He knew that his father had accepted the work they had done.
Activity: Companion Study
What influenced Frank to decide to have the missionaries teach him?
How can you better link family history work to God’s plan for families?
How are you using family history as a finding tool?
In what ways can you offer family history information to the people you meet each day?
Make plans to begin using family history as a more prominent tool in your finding efforts.
Family history is a powerful resource to use in finding those whom the Lord is preparing to receive the restored gospel.
Pray to be aware of opportunities to use family history in your finding efforts.
People typically have spiritual feelings as they talk about families.
People also feel the Spirit as they are taught about the doctrine concerning why we do family history work.
In addition, convert retention is enhanced as new members are able to search their family roots and perform sacred ordinances in behalf of their ancestors.
Scripture Study
What has the Lord restored to the earth through Elijah?
Doctrine and Covenants 110:14–16
Doctrine and Covenants 128:16–18
Doctrine and Covenants 138:32–34
Malachi 4:5–6
Activity: Personal and Companion Study
Arrange to visit with a member who has experience with family history.
Learn what services are available through your local temple and family history consultants.
Practice how you will offer family history help to those you meet.
Make plans to offer family history in your finding efforts.
Read and discuss the
Families and Temples
booklet to gain a stronger understanding of family history service.
Write what you learn in your study journal.
People Who Have Been Taught Previously
Image
Christ carrying lamb
People who have been taught previously are a valuable source for finding people to teach.
There are many reasons why people stop meeting with missionaries.
Reasons include missionaries being transferred, people going on vacation, missionaries stopping visits even though people are still expecting visits, and people believing that the missionaries have nothing new to teach them.
Many people who have been taught previously say they would meet with missionaries again.
Review your area book often to identify people who have been taught previously.
Prayerfully reflect on the information in the area book concerning how each person first came in contact with the Church, what they have been taught, how they have responded, and why they stopped receiving the lessons.
If members have been involved in teaching and fellowshipping these people, ask the members what they remember about the experience.
Based on this information, make plans to contact the person again.
If someone you are teaching chooses to stop learning about the gospel, record information in the area book that will be helpful for the missionaries who will contact them in the future.
As you read the following experience, consider the power of contacting people who were taught previously.
Much to my surprise, I was called to labor in the same mission where my older sister had served a year earlier.
After a few months in the mission field, I was transferred to one of the areas where my sister had served.
Upon learning of my transfer, my sister wrote and asked me to visit a family that she and her companion had taught.
She expressed the love and closeness she had with the Norman family and how disappointed she was when they discontinued investigating the Church.
My companion and I located the Normans and were warmly received by them.
They accepted our invitation to again hear the restored gospel.
I’m not sure what the difference was this time, but they were fully ready to accept our message.
The entire family was baptized and confirmed.
After this experience, I wondered about other [people] my sister had worked with.
I thought, “If it worked for the Normans, maybe it will work for other people she taught as well.” I decided to write my sister about the idea of contacting other people she had taught.
She went through her journal and sent me the names of other [people] in the area.
My companion and I spent the next week contacting these people.
To our delight, almost half of them accepted an invitation to hear the restored gospel again.
Several of this group were baptized and confirmed.
While meeting with these [people], we also asked them for referrals of their friends and acquaintances that would be interested in our message.
As a result, we found additional people to teach.
This was the busiest time of my mission.
Activity: Companion Study
Identify all the people who have been taught previously in your area book.
Make plans to contact them as soon as possible.
Finding through Your Own Efforts
Seek to strengthen your faith that God is preparing His children to receive the message of the Restoration.
As you do all you can under the guidance of the Holy Ghost to find people to teach, the Lord will place such people in your path.
There are many honorable ways to find those being prepared for the restored gospel.
You need to do all you can to be placed in the path of those who are being prepared.
Missionaries have found that the following ideas have helped them find people to teach through their own efforts.
As you review the list, make plans to try some of the ideas that are new to you.
This list also serves as a starting point for you in thinking of other honorable ways to find people to teach.
Image
missionaries talking
Work with the bishop and the ward council to identify and contact people who have recently had a baby, moved to the area, or experienced a death in the family.
Look for opportunities to offer simple service.
Teach members—including active members, returning members, recent converts, and part-member families—the message of the Restoration.
Ask them to introduce you to people you can teach.
Arrange to hold member devotionals to which they can bring their friends or in which you can teach the gospel and ask for referrals.
Offer to teach people how to hold home evening.
Offer to take those you meet on a tour of the local meetinghouse.
Offer to arrange a meeting with the bishop.
Invite people to visit Church-approved websites and online resources.
Organize a scripture study class.
Teach English as a second language.
Invite people of the appropriate age to attend seminary or institute.
Go from home to home or talk to people on the streets.
Use Church-approved print and digital resources, including uplifting media.
Seek referrals from the people you are currently teaching, people who have been taught previously, returning members, part-member families, prospective elders, and everyone you meet.
Invite people to Church meetings, activities, and open houses.
Invite people to baptismal services.
These provide an excellent introduction to the Church and afford good opportunities for people to feel the influence of the Spirit.
No Effort Is Wasted
When people choose not to learn more about the restored gospel, your work is not wasted.
Your consistent efforts in serving and teaching as many people as you can are one way God prepares His children to eventually receive His servants.
He often reaches out to His children through you.
Even when people do not accept the opportunity to learn the gospel, your service and words are evidence of God’s love for them and may plant seeds that future missionaries and members of the Church will harvest.
When people do not accept the gospel, do not be discouraged.
You have raised a warning voice.
You have given them a clear choice.
Disciples of Christ feel sorrow when people choose not to repent, but they maintain a vision of who they are and what they are doing.
They continue to diligently move forward.
Remember This
Build up the Church by finding “them that will receive you” (
Doctrine and Covenants 42:8
).
Seek for and follow the Spirit when finding.
People in your area are being prepared to receive the restored gospel.
Church members—including those who are active, returning members, prospective elders, those from part-member families, and recent converts—are your best resources for finding people to teach, baptize, and confirm.
Develop a strong relationship with the bishop and members.
Teach when you find, and find when you teach.
Be aware of unplanned finding opportunities.
Pray for opportunities to do good and to preach the message of the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
There are many ways to find people to teach.
Avoid focusing on just one or two approaches.
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Read the following letter from a missionary to her parents: “I taught a wonderful lady on the bus.
We were coming back from district [council], and it was the only empty seat so I sat down and started to look at my mail.
Of course, the first one to be read was yours, with the baby pictures of Evan.
I noticed that the eyes next to me were also looking at the pictures, and I looked over to meet eyes with an older woman.
She gave me a half smile and looked out the window.
She then closed her eyes like she was going to sleep.
I prayed, ‘Heavenly Father, I want to talk to her.
Please help me.’ A minute later she opened her eyes and sat up straight, and I quickly said, ‘Don’t you think he is cute?’ I showed her the pictures of baby Evan and started talking about families with her.
I asked her about her kids, and she got teary-eyed and told me a story about how her daughter hates her and wants nothing to do with her.
She cried and I cried with her.
I told her about the plan of salvation and how Heavenly Father knows her and knows what she is going through.
I cried and told her that I know that her daughter loves her because I am a daughter of a mother that loves me, and I love her.
I explained that sometimes people make bad decisions and that her daughter has agency.
She told me, smiling, ‘I bet your mother really misses you, and she will not let you go when she sees you again.’ She thanked me for talking with her and gave me her address so that we can share the gospel with her.
As she was getting off the bus, she said, ‘I got on the wrong bus, but I didn’t get off.
No one sat by me until you came … and look what happened.’ God’s plan is perfect!”
What principles from this chapter do you see in this account?
Review the chapter and make a list in your study journal.
Which of these principles can you try to apply today?
Read
John 15:12–13
;
21:15–17
;
1 Thessalonians 2
; and
Mosiah 18:8–10
.
How well are you fulfilling your responsibility to love and serve others?
How can you improve?
Write your response in your study journal.
How will people know that you are a servant of the Lord?
As you ponder this question, study
Moroni 7:3–5
;
Matthew 7:20
; and
John 13:34–35
.
Record your thoughts in your study journal.
Read
3 Nephi 18:31–32
;
Alma 8:16
;
Alma 24:7–8
; and
Alma 32:41
.
Consider what these verses teach about working with people who were taught previously.
Record what you learn in your study journal and teach it to your companion.
Companion Study
Using your daily planner, make plans to meet with recent converts.
Ask them to share how they were prepared for the gospel.
Ask questions like these: When did you first come in contact with the Church?
What prompted you to meet with missionaries?
Write what you learn in your study journal.
Review each of the following topics.
Using the lessons, prepare a simple finding approach.
Practice teaching in a finding setting and quickly relating each topic to the Restoration.
Feeling a need for more direction and purpose in life.
Wanting to draw nearer to God.
Needing help with important decisions.
Watch one of the “how-to” videos on
FamilySearch.org
.
Prepare a brief message about family history work, and share it with your companion.
Imagine that you and your companion are transferred into a new area.
You find the area book in good condition, but you have no people to teach.
What would you do to add people to your teaching pool as rapidly as possible?
Make plans to implement some of these ideas today.
The following idea has been successful for many missionaries and members.
Read and study this idea with your companion.
Help members make a list of friends, relatives, and acquaintances with whom they could share the gospel.
Review this list with the members, and help them prayerfully select someone they would like to prepare to hear the gospel.
Help them set a day by which they will
(a)
work to have the person or family prepared to be taught in their home or
(b)
do some other fellowshipping activity to prepare them.
Setting a date gives members a goal and helps them exercise faith.
Help them plan what they will do between now and the date they have set.
Follow up with them regularly to support and encourage them.
Invite them to share their successes and concerns.
Discuss how you can apply this idea in the area in which you are serving.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Read and discuss the
“Finding through Your Own Efforts”
section.
Discuss how these ideas have helped missionaries find people to teach.
On a chalkboard, list other ideas for finding people to teach.
Invite the missionaries to demonstrate their ideas.
Invite the missionaries to set personal goals for improving their finding efforts.
Create a list of finding situations.
Assign each missionary one of the situations.
Allow each missionary five minutes to prepare how he or she would teach the message of the Restoration.
Refer them to “
The Message of the Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
” lesson if needed.
Emphasize the importance of keeping the length of the message appropriate to the setting.
For example, missionaries might spend more time teaching in a member’s home than they would teaching someone in the store.
Allow as many missionaries as time permits to teach the message of the Restoration in their assigned situation.
Teach the principles found in the “
Teach When You Find, Find When You Teach
” section.
Assign each missionary to prepare a one-minute message he or she could share in a finding setting.
These messages should be based on the doctrine found in the missionary lessons.
Invite the missionaries to practice sharing their one-minute message with each other.
You may want to set up a variety of finding settings, such as teaching in a member’s home, teaching on a doorstep, teaching on a sidewalk, or contacting a referral.
Have the missionaries practice teaching in each of these settings.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Set an example of member-missionary work in your family.
Share your experiences with the missionaries and members.
Counsel with priesthood and auxiliary leaders as to the best way for missionaries to find people to teach in your mission.
Organize missionary devotionals at which you can speak to the people being taught in your mission.
Coordinate with local priesthood leaders to make the meeting available to members who can bring their friends.
As part of these meetings, have recent converts bear testimony and tell their conversion stories before you speak.
Focus your remarks on the message of the Restoration.
Share your family tree, family photos, and family history stories with missionaries, and explain how you use these resources in your finding efforts.
Occasionally go with the missionaries to help them find people to teach.
Notes
10
How Can I Improve My Teaching Skills?
Image
The Sermon on the Mount
Consider This
How should I teach from the scriptures?
Why should I ask questions when I teach?
What types of questions should I ask?
How can I listen better to those I teach and to the Spirit?
How can I help people resolve their concerns?
How can I help others overcome addictions?
You are called to teach the restored gospel to as many people as will receive you.
Teaching is central to everything you do.
You develop Christlike attributes, study the missionary lessons, improve your ability to speak in your mission language, and rely on the Spirit in order to teach with convincing power.
The Lord stated this very simply as a commandment with a promise:
“Seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men” (
Doctrine and Covenants 11:21
).
“Neither take ye thought beforehand what ye shall say; but treasure up in your minds continually the words of life, and it shall be given you in the very hour that portion that shall be meted unto every man” (
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85
).
The First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve Apostles have stated: “Our purpose is to teach the message of the restored gospel in such a way as to allow the Spirit to direct both the missionaries and those being taught.
It is essential to learn the [missionary lessons] but these should not be taught by rote presentation.
The missionary should feel free to use his own words as prompted by the Spirit.
He should not give a memorized recitation, but speak from the heart in his own terms.
He may depart from the order of the lessons, giving that which he is inspired to do, according to the interest and needs of the
[individual].
Speaking out of his own conviction and in his own words he should bear testimony of the truth of his teachings” (“Statement on Missionary Work,” First Presidency letter, Dec.
11, 2002).
Learn to rely on the Spirit to give you what you should say and do.
By studying, developing, and using the teaching skills in this chapter, you will become a more capable instrument in the hands of the Lord.
The Spirit will draw upon the knowledge and skills you have developed to help you teach more powerfully.
The quality and power of your teaching will help others understand and feel the importance the restored gospel has for them.
Their understanding will be influenced by your personal worthiness.
Their understanding will also be influenced by how well you focus your attention on them and listen and by how well you explain the gospel, use the scriptures, share your testimony, ask questions, and invite them to make and keep commitments.
Follow the Spirit
“The Spirit is the most important single element in this work.
With the Spirit magnifying your call, you can do miracles for the Lord in the mission field.
Without the Spirit, you will never succeed
regardless
of your talent and ability” (Ezra Taft Benson [address given at the seminar for new mission presidents, June 25, 1986]).
Invite the Spirit
The following suggestions will help you invite the Spirit as you teach:
Pray.
Use the scriptures, especially the Book of Mormon.
Bear testimony.
Share experiences.
Express love for the Lord and for others.
How to Begin Teaching
The first few moments with people are very important.
They must learn to trust you.
Begin your first visit in a warm, respectful, genuine manner.
Ask a few simple questions to help you understand their religious background and their expectations regarding your visits.
For example, ask, “What role has religion played in your life?” Do not, however, ask personal questions that would make them uncomfortable.
Before you begin, ask all who are present to join with you in the lesson.
Encourage them to turn off the television and remove other distractions so that the Spirit of the Lord will not be hindered.
Explain that you would like to begin and end each lesson in prayer.
Suggest that you will offer the opening prayer.
Pray simply but fervently that the Lord will bless the people you are teaching in every aspect of their lives, and especially that they can feel the truth of what you will teach.
Demonstrate sincere interest and love for them and faith in the converting power of the gospel (see
Moroni 7:43–48
).
As guided by the Spirit, you may express thoughts such as the following:
Because God is our Heavenly Father, we are all brothers and sisters.
We would like to refer to you as brothers and sisters.
Each person we teach has personal challenges and concerns.
No matter what your needs or concerns might be, the Savior and His teachings—the gospel—will help you.
Our message will enable you to improve the quality of your lives.
It will help you deal with the problems and challenges that we all face in life.
Our message, which is centered in Jesus Christ, is of great value and importance.
We all make mistakes in life, and these mistakes create feelings of guilt and shame.
These feelings cannot be relieved without repentance and forgiveness.
They can be fully healed through the Atonement of Christ.
Our message cannot be learned all at once.
Understanding will come over time through prayer, study, experience, and keeping God’s commandments.
We have weaknesses, as everyone does.
We may not speak the language very well or be able to answer every question you have.
But we have been called by a prophet of God to share what we know.
We know that our message is true.
We will be guides so that you can learn the truth of our message for yourselves.
It is your choice to accept and act on the message.
Therefore, you should feel free to ask questions.
As you sincerely seek to understand our message, you may face challenges, but God will help you.
As you accept our message, you will learn how to make covenants, or promises, with God.
You will learn how to make changes to bring your lives in closer harmony with His teachings.
You will want to follow the teachings of Jesus Christ and be baptized by proper authority (see
John 3:5
).
Before teaching the doctrine in a lesson, consider giving a simple overview of what you are going to teach.
Help people see that it will have personal relevance for them.
Many of the people you teach have been prepared by the Lord (see
Alma 16:16–17
).
As you share spiritual experiences together in the first meeting, they will recognize you as servants of the Lord.
Activity: Companion Study
With your companion, practice different ways to begin a lesson using several of these suggestions.
Adjust Your Teaching to Meet Needs
Image
King Benjamin Preaches to the Nephties
Each person or family you teach is unique.
Even though you will not understand all of their interests, achievements, needs, and concerns, you should seek to be sensitive to their circumstances.
Regardless of needs or problems, all people are best helped as they accept and live the gospel.
You will be able to adjust your teaching as you listen to the promptings of the Spirit.
Let the Spirit guide the order in which you present the lessons based on the needs, interests, questions, and situations of those you teach.
You may use more than one meeting to teach the
principles in one lesson, and occasionally you may teach the contents of two lessons in a single meeting.
Heavenly Father knows His children, so rely on inspiration to make these decisions as you teach.
Pray for the gift of discernment, and pay attention to thoughts that come to your mind or feelings you have about what to teach.
You will need to adjust your teaching to give more attention to those commitments that are more difficult for an individual to keep.
For example, one person may easily accept the Book of Mormon as the word of God, while another may struggle to accept anything but the Bible.
One person may have trouble giving up tobacco but will readily accept the law of tithing.
As you plan when to teach certain doctrinal principles, be sensitive about how much new information you share.
Teach at a pace that is appropriate for the person.
Some will progress faster or slower than others.
Make sure that you ask enough questions and listen carefully to their answers so you have a firm understanding of how quickly and how well they are learning and applying the doctrine you are presenting.
Be sensitive to time.
Most teaching appointments should not last beyond 45 minutes.
A teaching visit can be completed, however, in 15 or 20 minutes if needed.
If the person has only 15 minutes to meet with you, adjust your teaching to respect that limitation.
Trust in the promise that the Spirit will give you “in the very hour, yea, in the very moment, what ye shall say” (
Doctrine and Covenants 100:6
).
Activity: Personal Study
Imagine that you are walking down the street and notice an older man struggling to place some heavy bags into a garbage can.
You and your companion help him, and as a result he asks who you are.
After some discussion he invites you into his home and agrees to hear your message.
During the initial conversation he tells you that:
His wife died a year ago, and he really misses her.
He tires easily because of a heart condition.
He wonders more now than ever before whether God exists.
What might you teach him?
How could you adjust your teaching to best meet his needs and concerns?
Scripture Study
What does it mean to give “that portion that shall be meted unto every man”?
Alma 29:8
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85
What has the Lord promised faithful missionaries?
Doctrine and Covenants 68:2–4
Doctrine and Covenants 100:5–8
Matthew 10:19–20
Teach with Your Companion in Unity
Image
Elder missionaries
The Lord has commanded, “Ye shall go forth in the power of my Spirit, preaching my gospel, two by two” (
Doctrine and Covenants 42:6
).
Your teaching will be more powerful and interesting if you and your companion work together in unity.
As you plan and study each day, discuss how you will teach so that you can be united and teach with one voice.
Your teaching will be more powerful if you and your companion alternate giving brief portions of the lesson.
Avoid falling into a routine when presenting the message.
Support your companion by offering a second witness to the truths of which he or she has testified.
Follow your impressions when the Spirit prompts you to say something.
As companions, be ready to yield to each other so that you do not hinder the guidance of the Spirit.
When you speak, maintain eye contact with the person.
When you are not speaking, pray for your companion and carefully observe the person’s responses.
Scripture Study
How do companions support one another?
Alma 12:1
Doctrine and Covenants 42:6
Doctrine and Covenants 52:9–10
Invite Members to Help You Teach
Whenever possible invite members, preferably recent converts, to help you teach.
The ideal situation is to include Church members who formerly belonged to the same church as the people you are teaching.
Show the members a copy of the lesson, and discuss what you want them to teach.
Discuss how to work together.
For example, have the members, as appropriate, share how they were able to learn, accept, and live a particular principle in the lesson.
Have them explain how they made the decision to join the Church.
When members join in teaching, they will have the opportunity to feel the joy of missionary work.
It also provides friendship for those you are teaching.
President Thomas S.
Monson taught:
During the teaching process [people] can be benefitted by the strength of a member couple’s testimony who have in recent years made the step to baptism and membership.
In the Canadian Mission in Ontario and Quebec, where our family lived when I presided over the mission, we found that the majority of the population belonged to perhaps three dominant faiths: Roman Catholic, Anglican, and the United Church of Canada.
In every city of the mission we arranged for a newly baptized family from each of these faiths to be available to the missionaries who were in the process of teaching new [people] so that such a member couple could accompany the missionary team on perhaps the second or third visit.
Can you appreciate, for example, when missionaries [were] working with those from the United Church of Canada, the strength of testimony of [a brother and sister] who had come from the United Church of Canada. [The husband] would say, “When I joined The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, … I found the truth in its entirety.
You too can make the adjustment.
You too can make the same decision.
In fact, let us pick you up on Sunday morning so that we can sit together in church.
Then you can hear and feel for yourself.
We’ll be right by your side.”
Anthony and Edith Belfiglio became such a fellowshipping couple to those who had Roman Catholic roots.
The result was the same.
It can be done.
And such converts stay converted.
In addition, the couples chosen to fulfill this assignment put their own roots even deeper in the rich soil of the gospel. … Brother Belfiglio became [an] ordained [patriarch] (missionary training satellite broadcast, Apr.
25, 2003).
Activity: Personal Study
Imagine that you have a first appointment to teach a lesson to a family in a member’s home.
Decide how you would prepare each of the following members to help you teach:
A ward missionary who recently returned from a full-time mission
A priest
A recent convert
The bishop
Use the Scriptures
The standard works of the Church are your basic sources for teaching the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
You may also use the words of living prophets.
There are many reasons why it is vital to use the scriptures as the basis for your teaching.
For example:
The Lord and His prophets have instructed us to do so (see
Doctrine and Covenants 42:12, 56–58
;
71:1
).
A latter-day prophet counseled, “The words and the way they are used in the Book of Mormon by the Lord … should be used by us in teaching gospel principles” (Ezra Taft Benson, “
The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants
,”
Ensign,
May 1987, 84).
The scriptures invite the Holy Ghost into your teaching.
They teach God’s word with power (see
Alma 31:5
).
The scriptures answer the great questions of the soul (see
2 Nephi 32:3
;
Jacob 2:8
).
The scriptures give authority and validity to your teaching, even in areas without a Christian background.
Image
Jesus in the synagogue at Nazareth
© Greg K.
Olsen.
Do not copy.
Your ability to teach with power from the scriptures comes in large measure from the time you personally spend studying them.
As you daily feast upon the word, your ability to teach from the scriptures will improve.
In addition, your invitations to study and ponder the scriptures will be more powerful because you are doing the same thing in your life.
Help people gain faith in Jesus Christ through studying the scriptures—particularly the Book of Mormon—and to gain a testimony that the scriptures are sources of revealed truth.
When people come to believe the scriptures, you will be better able to help them understand the doctrine correctly.
The following suggestions may help.
Introduce the scripture.
Describe briefly the background and context of the passage you will use.
Invite those you teach to look for particular points in the passage.
When teaching people with a limited knowledge of the scriptures, you may need to begin by describing the contents of a passage, using language that they will understand.
Below are examples of introducing a scripture:
“Here in Joseph Smith’s history we have Joseph’s own words telling what happened to him as he went into the grove to pray.
He said, ‘I saw a pillar of light …’”
“In this passage the prophet Alma is teaching people who are poor to exercise their faith in the word of God.
He compares the word of God to a seed that can be planted in our hearts.
Will you begin reading verse …”
Read the passage.
Read the verses aloud or ask the person you are teaching to read aloud.
Be sensitive to those who struggle to read.
If a passage is difficult for them to understand, read with them carefully and help them understand the more difficult points.
Or give them a simpler passage to read.
You might also define difficult words or phrases:
“Let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not [’upbraideth not’ means that God won’t find blame or fault] and it shall be given him” (
James 1:5
).
Some scriptural passages are clear and need no explanation.
For others you may take time to explain what has been read.
Apply the scripture.
“Liken” the scriptures to yourself and to those you teach by showing how the principles are relevant today (see
1 Nephi 19:23
).
Show them how they can apply the principles in their lives.
As they do, they will come to know that the doctrine is true.
Bear your testimony of the principle, and promise them blessings.
For example:
“The people of Alma, like you, had heavy burdens placed on them, almost more than they could bear.
But as they exercised faith and ‘cried mightily to God,’ He strengthened them so they could endure the challenges and then delivered them from their trials.
Just as He did with these people, I know God will help you in your trials as you …”
“Alma’s instruction to the people at the waters of Mormon applies to us today.
John, are you willing to …”
The people you teach will differ widely in how they view sacred texts, how familiar they are with the Bible, how well they understand scriptural language, and how deeply they believe that the Bible contains God’s word.
Help all people gain an appreciation for the scriptures.
By effectively using the scriptures in your teaching, you can help them begin to study the scriptures on their own.
After each visit, suggest specific chapters or verses for them to read.
You might give them questions to consider as they read, which you can discuss in your next meeting.
This will encourage them to study the scriptures daily in their homes and participate in Church meetings and classes where the scriptures are used.
Cultural Views of Scriptures
Most religions have sacred texts or books of scripture, but their use and perception of them may be different from how members of the Church view scriptures.
For example, you may need to explain that your marking of scriptures is evidence of your desire to understand and apply the teachings of the scriptures and is not a sign of disrespect.
Help those you teach see that the standard works are important because they contain the word of the Lord as written by prophets of God and that we accept them as truth.
Activity: Companion Study
Review one of the following passages.
Determine how you would:
Introduce the passage.
Provide background and context.
Read the passage and explain its meaning.
Explain difficult words.
Help those you teach apply it in their lives.
Title page of the Book of Mormon
;
3 Nephi 11
;
Moroni 10:3–8
;
John 17:3
;
Romans 8:16–17
;
1 Corinthians 15:29
;
James 1:5
;
1 Peter 3:19–20
;
Amos 3:7
Scripture Study
Why is it important to teach from the scriptures?
1 Nephi 19:23
2 Nephi 4:15–16
Doctrine and Covenants 20:7–12
2 Timothy 3:15–17
Teach for Understanding
People are better able to believe the message of the Restoration of the gospel when they understand the message.
President James E.
Faust said: “Study, ponder, and teach from the scriptures, especially the Book of Mormon and the New Testament.
Know the truth so well that you can state it clearly.
B. H.
Roberts wrote, ‘To be known, the truth must be stated and the clearer and more complete the statement is, the better the opportunity will the Holy Spirit have for testifying to the souls of men that the work is true.’ [
New Witnesses for God,
3 vols. (1909), 2:vii].
You cannot convert people beyond your own conversion” (“
What I Want My Son to Know before He Leaves on His Mission
,”
Ensign,
May 1996, 41).
You are commanded to reason with and expound the scriptures when you teach (see
Doctrine and Covenants 68:1
).
Expound
means to enlarge on and to explain clearly.
Expounding the gospel means that you explain the meaning of the doctrine and scriptural passages simply and clearly, relying on the Spirit to guide what you say.
Use dignified but conversational language to help people understand the doctrinal principles.
Ask questions to help them think about the principles and to see if they understand and accept what you have taught.
At the end of each of the first three lessons in chapter 3 is a list of words that may be unfamiliar to those you teach.
Part of teaching for understanding is to make sure you explain words, phrases, and ideas so that other people understand you better.
You can improve your ability to explain the gospel by:
Understanding the words you use.
Defining words others may not understand.
Many words that mean special things to members of the Church are defined simply in approved Church resources.
Asking people questions like, “Do you know what we mean when we say … ?” or “Can you restate what we just talked about in your own words?”
As you study the doctrine in chapter 3, identify words you think may be difficult for someone to understand.
As you teach the doctrine in chapter 3, make notes of words, phrases, and ideas that those you teach have a hard time understanding.
Define those words using the resources mentioned above.
Test your definitions with people you are teaching and recent converts.
“It is true intelligence for a man to take a subject that is mysterious and great in itself, and to unfold and simplify it so that a child can understand it.”
—President John Taylor
The Gospel Kingdom,
sel.
G. Homer Durham (1943), 270
Scripture Study
Why should we expound or explain doctrine carefully?
Mosiah 8:3
Mosiah 27:35
Alma 12:1
3 Nephi 26:1
Doctrine and Covenants 68:1–5
Doctrine and Covenants 71:1
How do we learn?
Why is it important to unfold or gradually disclose information?
2 Nephi 28:30
Jacob 4:13
Mosiah 2:9
Doctrine and Covenants 98:11–12
Why is plainness important?
2 Nephi 25:4, 7, 28
2 Nephi 32:7
Alma 13:23
Nehemiah 8:8
How does the Lord communicate with His children?
2 Nephi 31:3
Doctrine and Covenants 1:24
Ask Questions
Image
Boy Jesus in the Temple
Jesus Christ often asked questions to help people ponder and apply principles.
His questions prompted thought, soul searching, and commitment.
Good questions will help you understand interests, concerns, or questions that others have.
They can enhance your teaching, invite the Spirit, and help people learn.
Poor questions can intimidate, irritate, and offend people.
They can also cause you to lose control of the teaching situation.
Try to ask questions that:
Are simple and easy to understand.
Help people think about what you are teaching.
Help you determine how well they understand what you are teaching.
Help people apply what they learn.
As those you teach respond to these types of questions, they will feel that they can talk openly.
Good questions can lead people to ask you questions when they don’t understand, when they have a concern, or when they want to know what to do.
Good questions can help those you teach share their feelings and by so doing discover a growing testimony.
Examples of effective questions include:
What questions do you have about what we have taught?
Do you believe that Heavenly Father loves you?
Why?
How do we sometimes make the same error as the people in this story?
To help those you teach prepare to answer questions, you may want to say, “As I explain the importance of keeping the Sabbath day holy, ask yourself, ‘What does this commandment mean to me?’” Avoid asking questions that:
Include more than one idea.
Pertain to doctrine you have not yet taught.
Do not have a clear purpose.
Interrogate and pry unnecessarily.
Asking too many questions, especially in your first visit, gives the impression that you are conducting an “interrogation.” Do not ask people to give specific answers about unimportant or obvious details.
This will turn a good teaching environment into a game of guessing.
When you need a specific answer, it is best to ask a factual question or present the information in some other way.
Avoid asking questions that might embarrass someone if they do not know the answers.
Questions are most useful when asked after you have taught and testified about a key principle.
Following are examples of less-effective questions:
Who was the first prophet? (Asked before teaching about dispensations.)
How will keeping our bodies pure help us have the Spirit and show that we are willing to follow a prophet of God? (More than one idea.)
Is it important to know about God’s commandments? (Yes-no answer and too obvious.)
How do you feel about the Book of Mormon? (Before they have read it.)
What is something we can do every day that will help us feel close to God? (Vague question looking for a specific answer: pray.)
Who was the next prophet after Noah? (Asking them to guess.)
Image
Bring forth the record
© 1985 Robert T.
Barrett.
Do not copy.
Learn to ask questions as prompted by the Spirit.
The right type of question at the right time can greatly help those you teach to learn the gospel and feel the Spirit.
Likewise, the wrong type of question or a question at the wrong time can interfere with their learning.
Asking appropriate questions at the right time requires that you are in tune with the Spirit, that you listen to those you are teaching, and that you focus throughout the teaching experience.
Effective teaching can be hard work and requires concentration and effort on the part of you and your companion.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
What might happen to an individual’s progress if he or she encountered the following situations and you never found out about them?
Coworkers who regularly make fun of spiritual things.
Family members who are strong members of another church.
Friends who believe that the Mormons are a non-Christian cult.
A spiritual experience in reading from the Book of Mormon.
Think of a question that you would ask to learn more about each of the situations above.
Write your questions in your study journal.
Discuss with your companion how you might improve the questions each of you wrote for this activity.
Listen
When you listen carefully to others, you understand them better.
When they know that their thoughts and feelings are important to you, they are more likely to be receptive to your teachings, share personal experiences, and make commitments.
As you listen, you will be able to more effectively adapt your teaching to their needs and interests.
Especially listen for the whisperings of the Spirit.
As others share their feelings with you, thoughts or ideas may enter your mind that are directed by the Spirit.
You will also be able to understand what others are trying to express.
While others talk to you, avoid the tendency to think about what you are going to say.
Make sure you are really concentrating on the person speaking rather than planning your response.
Elder Jeffrey R.
Holland taught: “More important than speaking is listening.
These people are not lifeless objects disguised as a baptismal statistic.
They are children of God, our brothers and sisters, and they need what we have.
Be genuine.
Reach out sincerely.
Ask these friends what matters most to
them.
What do
they
cherish, and what do
they
hold dear?
And then listen.
If the setting is right, you might ask what their fears are, what they yearn for, or what they feel is missing in their lives.
I promise you that
something
in what they say will
always
highlight a truth of the gospel about which you can bear testimony and about which you can then offer more. … If we listen with love, we won’t need to wonder what to say.
It will be given to us—by the Spirit and by our friends” (“
Witnesses unto Me
,”
Ensign,
May 2001, 15; italics in original).
People also communicate by the way they sit, their facial expressions, what they do with their hands, their tone of voice, and the movements of their eyes.
Observe these unspoken messages; they can help you understand the feelings of those you teach.
Also be aware of your own body language.
Send a message of interest and enthusiasm by listening sincerely.
Do not be afraid of silence.
People often need time to think about and reply to questions or to express what they are feeling.
You might pause after you have asked a question, after sharing a spiritual experience, or when people are having difficulty expressing themselves.
Be sure to give people time to complete their thoughts before you respond, and do not interrupt while they are talking.
When you feel that you understand what is being said, make comments that show you understand, such as “So what you are saying is _____.
Is that right?” or “If I understand, you are feeling that _____.” When you are not sure if you understand, ask the person for clarification.
Some people may tend to dominate the conversation and keep you from teaching the restored gospel.
You will need to learn to take control of such situations tactfully.
For example, “We appreciate what you are sharing with us, but that is an issue we would like to discuss later.
I will ask my companion to write it down so we will be sure not to forget to treat it on a later visit.” Remember, you will help people most by teaching them the gospel of Jesus Christ.
As you listen carefully, the Spirit will help you know what to say.
Listening takes effort and concentration.
One missionary shared the following true experience (the names have been changed):
My companion and I were teaching the Sanchez family.
It was hot and the children were making a lot of noise.
I asked Sister Sanchez about her reading in the Book of Mormon.
As she began to explain, I noticed that their son had grabbed my companion’s notebook and was running around the room waving it in the air.
Although I was looking at Sister Sanchez, my mind was elsewhere.
I thought to myself,
“It’s so hot, and I wish their little boy would settle down.
This just isn’t going to work.” As my mind wandered, I noticed that Sister Sanchez was struggling to talk.
A subtle impression came into my mind to listen.
I fought to tune out the heat and the noise.
I carefully watched her face as she spoke.
She looked down at the ground, then back up at my companion and me.
Her husband was hopelessly trying to quiet the children.
There was a pause, and then with trembling in her voice she said, “I did what you asked.
I read those chapters you wanted me to, and I prayed.” Again she paused and looked down.
She glanced at her children, then her eyes met mine. “I got an answer,” she said with a smile and with tear-filled eyes. “It’s true, I know it’s true.” The Spirit filled the room.
With a heart full of gratitude that I had listened, I smiled and said, “Yes, it is.”
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
After reviewing the story above, either write an answer in your study journal to the questions below or discuss them with your companion.
What might have happened if the missionary had been more concerned about his personal comfort or his companion’s notebook?
How was this person blessed because the missionary listened?
Answer the questions below:
A
= Never true of me
B
= Sometimes true of me
C
= Usually true of me
D
= Always true of me
When I talk with others, I think of similar experiences that I can share instead of listening carefully.
When others tell me about their feelings, I try to put myself in their shoes to see how I would feel.
When I teach people, I am worried about what I am going to say or teach next.
I get frustrated when people want to talk a lot.
I struggle to follow or understand what others are trying to tell me.
My mind often wanders while my companion is teaching.
I get upset if someone is talking to me and others cut in or distract my attention.
I receive spiritual promptings to say or do something, but I ignore them.
Determine what you can do to improve your ability to listen.
Develop a Good Relationship with the People You Teach
To avoid embarrassment, some people will answer questions the way they think you want them to answer rather than share true feelings.
Seek to develop a relationship that allows them to be comfortable sharing their true feelings with you.
Help People Resolve Their Concerns
Image
Iceberg
Do not copy.
Some of those you teach will lack the faith to keep commitments, others will face opposition, and others will not always accept everything you share.
They must make their own choices, but you will want to do all you can to answer their questions, help them resolve their concerns, and overcome opposition.
Sometimes people’s concerns are like an iceberg.
Only a small portion is visible above the surface.
These concerns can be complex and difficult to resolve.
For this reason, you need to follow the Spirit and respond in a manner best suited to the situation.
Pray for the gift of discernment and follow your impressions.
Heavenly Father knows the hearts and experiences of all people (the complete iceberg) and will help you know what is best for each person.
When you help others resolve their concerns, first seek to understand their concerns by asking questions and listening.
Rely on the Spirit to help you know how to help them resolve their concerns.
For example, you might use a scripture to address a concern about the need for baptism, or you might share your testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Often concerns are more social than doctrinal.
For example, some people might fear opposition from family members if they join the Church.
Or they might fear rejection from their friends at work.
Whatever the concern may be, they may have past experiences or other influences that are part of the concern that you do not understand.
In many cases, members may be able to help you understand and help with their concerns.
How you approach an individual’s concern will depend on the nature of that concern.
Determine whether the concern has come up because the person does not have a spiritual confirmation of the truth of the Restoration or whether the person does not want to commit to living a true principle.
Understanding the source of the problem in this way helps you know whether to focus on testimony or commitment.
Activity: Companion Study
Choose one invitation you extend when you teach the lessons.
Then identify different concerns which might keep someone from accepting or keeping that commitment.
Discuss and practice how you can best help people as they work to resolve their concerns.
Repentance and Addiction Recovery
Repentance is a spiritual process that involves humility, confession, restitution, and turning away from the sin.
It is a continual commitment to improve our thoughts and actions as we work to become more like the Savior.
Even when sins are repeated, repentance is available as a means of healing (see
Mosiah 26:30
;
Moroni 6:8
;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:31–32
).
Repentance may involve an emotional and physical process.
People must stop ongoing, ingrained ways of inappropriate acting.
Undesirable actions must be replaced with healthy and appropriate behaviors.
Sometimes converts, even with the best of intentions, give in to temptation as they progress toward greater self-discipline.
Thus, both repentance and recovery may take considerable time.
In such cases new converts seek the Lord’s help, and if necessary, work with their priesthood leaders (not with the missionaries) as they seek to overcome temptation and to fully repent.
Through baptism and confirmation people receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, which will strengthen their ability to overcome these challenges.
But baptism and confirmation may not fully do away with the emotional and physical urges that go along with these behaviors.
Even though a person may have some initial success, further emotional healing may be necessary to completely repent and recover.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Think of someone you are teaching, a recent convert, or a returning member who is trying to overcome addiction.
Review “
Faith in Jesus Christ
” and “
Repentance
” from the “
The Gospel of Jesus Christ
” lesson in chapter 3.
What could you teach this person from this lesson and from this chapter that will help him or her overcome addiction?
Create a lesson plan to help this individual.
Helping Others Understand Repentance and Addiction Recovery
You may be asked to answer questions and concerns about addiction.
You may also want to help people find answers to difficult questions related to these problems.
The best thing you can do is to refer them to local priesthood leaders and encourage them to become familiar with the Church’s online Addiction Recovery Program.
You may also want to encourage local Church leaders to access this same resource.
Local leaders can also refer to the Church’s Provident Living website.
Image
Touch of faith
© 2000 Simon Dewey.
Do not copy.
Here are a few suggestions regarding how you can show love and support for those struggling to overcome addiction:
Reinforce their efforts to come unto Christ.
Help them see that their efforts to recover and heal are recognized and valued by Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ and that they can be strengthened through the Savior and His Atonement.
He fully recognizes the intent of their heart to do good.
Pray for them both in your personal prayers and in your prayers with them.
As appropriate, encourage them to seek a priesthood blessing from local priesthood leaders.
Continue teaching them the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Teach them that Heavenly Father, the Savior, and the Holy Ghost love them and want their success.
Encourage them to attend church regularly and develop friendships with members.
Be positive and supportive—especially if they relapse.
Image
Prayer.
Adult.
Male
Latter-day Saints can best help new members remain active by being their friends.
Members should reach out to those you are teaching and to new converts with a warm, positive attitude.
Visitors and new converts will often respond favorably when greeted with a smile, when sincerely asked about how they are doing, when others sit by them during meetings, and when they are invited to a family dinner or home evening.
Because it is likely that some people may return to an addiction, priesthood leaders and members
should not be shocked or discouraged if they learn that someone you are teaching or a new member may be struggling with such problems.
They should show love toward the individual and not be judgmental if the person yields to an old craving.
They should treat it as a temporary and understandable setback.
Condemning the person being taught or the new convert is never helpful and may lead to discouragement, feelings of failure, and inactivity.
A new convert who suddenly stops attending church may have given in to an old addiction and may be feeling unworthy and discouraged.
An immediate visit giving encouragement and support can help the person succeed.
Members should show in word and action that the Church is a place where the love of Christ can be found (see
3 Nephi 18:32
).
Elder Dale G.
Renlund has counseled, “We must not only be tolerant while others work on their individual illnesses; we must also be kind, patient, supportive, and understanding” (“
Latter-day Saints Keep on Trying
,”
Ensign
or
Liahona,
May 2015, 57).
Remaining active in the Church and striving to live faithfully are important things people can do as they work to overcome addiction.
Activity: Personal Study
Think of some habit you have—something you do frequently, without thinking, such as cracking your knuckles, adjusting your glasses, eating too much, or sleeping too late.
Now try to go one day without doing it once.
When you succeed, try to go a whole week without doing it.
Discuss your experience with your companion.
Then try to imagine how much harder it is for someone you are teaching to conquer an addiction to pornography or harmful substances such as tobacco, alcohol, or drugs.
Leave Something Behind
At the conclusion of each teaching visit, provide the people you teach with something to read and ponder in preparation for the next meeting.
You might assign them chapters from the Book of Mormon to study or encourage them to use approved Church resources (both print and digital), such as Gospel Library, to find answers to a concern, research a topic, or watch a video.
The people you teach should always be given something to think about, to ponder, and to pray about.
This can become an opening topic of discussion the next time you meet.
Activity: Companion Study
Review the Church-approved items you have available to leave with people.
Are there other items you need to obtain so you can share them with the people you teach?
Make a list of the items you need to order.
Consider each person you are scheduled to teach this week.
What chapters in the Book of Mormon will be most helpful to them?
What other items would benefit them?
Record what you intend to provide each person and what you will do to follow up during your next visit.
Teach the Restored Gospel to Those without a Christian Background
Some of the people whom you will teach may not believe in Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ or have a Christian tradition.
Many of these people, however, will have beliefs, practices, and places which they hold sacred.
As a servant of God, it is essential that you show proper respect for their religious beliefs and traditions.
Do not do anything that would show disrespect for that which is important to them.
You may wonder how you should adjust your teaching approach for these people.
It will be helpful to remember that in order to be converted, all of God’s children, regardless of background, must develop faith in Jesus Christ, repent, receive the ordinances of baptism and confirmation, and endure to the end by keeping the commandments and giving service.
The principles that help others build faith in Jesus Christ are the same in all cultures.
You can find valuable resources for teaching those without a Christian background in Gospel Library under the “Missionary” section.
You can help people gain a correct understanding of God as our Heavenly Father and develop faith in Jesus Christ by helping them have personal spiritual experiences rather than simply telling them about the nature of God.
For example, you will help people gain this understanding as they:
Gain a spiritual conviction that God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Hear your sincere teaching and testimony of the gospel, including why you chose to follow Jesus Christ.
Frequently hear you and other members talk to Heavenly Father in a simple, heartfelt prayer.
Hear you bear powerful testimony.
Pray with you and on their own.
Come to learn how you feel about the scriptures as you read and discuss them.
Read God’s word from the scriptures daily (especially the Book of Mormon).
Attend church so they can see how we worship the Lord.
Meet members of the Church who can explain how they came to believe in Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ.
Keep the commandments.
These activities are beneficial for all people you teach, but they are essential when teaching those without a Christian background because these people are less likely to have had these experiences previously.
Many converts from non-Christian backgrounds report that they did not understand much of what the missionaries were saying but that they felt the Spirit and wanted to do what the missionaries asked.
Do all you can to help people understand the doctrine of the gospel.
Be patient and supportive, as it may take some time for people to learn to identify and express the feelings they have inside.
You may need to adjust the pace and depth of your teaching to help them understand.
As you prepare to teach those without a Christian background, the following suggestions may help:
Provide simple overviews and reviews for each lesson.
Ask them to tell you what they understand and what they have experienced.
Take the time to define essential words and principles.
Those you teach may not be familiar with many of the words you will use as you teach.
Return to a previously taught lesson to teach the doctrine more clearly.
This may be necessary any time in the teaching process.
Scriptural Examples
The scriptures contain examples of missionaries who have taught those who did not believe in God or who misunderstood His true nature.
Study the scriptures below, and then explain to your companion or record in your study journal how these missionaries helped people gain a testimony that God exists.
Alma and Amulek (
Alma 9–12
;
15
)
Ammon and Aaron (
Alma 17–22
)
Alma (
Alma 30
)
Alma and others (
Alma 31–35
)
Paul (
Acts 17:16–34
)
Activity: Companion Study
When possible, identify a convert who was not part of a Christian tradition before meeting with the missionaries.
Arrange to meet with him or her, and ask about his or her conversion experience.
For example, you might ask what led the person to believe in God, the first time he or she prayed, the first time he or she felt an answer to prayer, the role of the scriptures in his or her conversion, and what it was like to attend Sunday services.
Write what you learn in your study journal.
Remember This
As people are taught the restored gospel and live it, their needs will be met.
Plan and study each day with your companion to be united and to teach with one voice.
Share your testimony frequently.
The scriptures, especially the Book of Mormon, are your basic sources for teaching.
Pray for the gift of discernment to know when to use the skills described in this chapter.
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Assume you are placed in the following situations.
How might you use the principles and skills in this chapter to help these people progress?
Plan how you would apply them in each situation.
While walking through a park, you see a woman and a small boy sitting alone on a bench.
The woman is crying.
You arrive at the home of someone who has been preparing for baptism, and the person tells you that he or she no longer wants to meet with you.
You are meeting for the seventh time with an individual who has been taught by several missionaries over a two-year period.
There have been few if any signs of progress.
You are beginning to teach a member family a gospel message, and they say, “We have already asked everyone we know to meet with the missionaries, and they have all said no.”
Select one of the missionary lessons.
Identify one or two scripture passages from each main principle.
Practice teaching from those passages as outlined in the “Use the Scriptures” section of this chapter.
Over the course of several weeks, review the Savior’s teachings in the Gospels (
Matthew
,
Mark
,
Luke
,
John
) and
3 Nephi
.
In your study journal, make a list of the questions He asked.
Compare these questions with the questions you typically ask.
Read the account of Ammon and King Lamoni in
Alma 18
and the account of Aaron in
Alma 22:4–18
.
As you read, identify and describe how Ammon and Aaron:
Followed the Spirit and taught with love.
Began to teach.
Adapted their teachings to meet needs.
Bore testimony.
Used the scriptures.
Asked questions, listened, and resolved concerns.
Encouraged those they taught to make commitments.
Ponder the following statements by President Harold B.
Lee regarding teaching for understanding.
Evaluate how clearly you teach the doctrine of the gospel.
Record what you learn in your study journal.
“May you stay with the context of the scripture and reduce it to understandable terms” (
The Teachings of Harold B.
Lee,
sel.
Clyde J.
Williams [1996], 444).
“Now you as teachers are not being sent out to teach new doctrine.
You’re to teach the old [doctrine], not so plain that they can just understand, but you must teach the [doctrine] of the Church so plainly that no one can misunderstand” (
The Teachings of Harold B.
Lee,
458).
Companion Study
Review your lesson plan from a recent lesson you have taught.
Write one question for each of the major principles outlined in your plan.
Then review your
questions to see whether they are in harmony with what is taught in this chapter.
Next, answer each question as though you were someone being taught.
Revise your questions as needed.
Share your questions with your companion.
Together, evaluate your questions.
Consider the needs of someone you are teaching.
Discuss how he or she might answer your questions.
Also discuss how these questions may invite the Spirit and help them learn the gospel.
Think of the new people you are teaching.
Discuss what you can do to help them progress.
Write your ideas in your study journal and make plans in your daily planner.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite members or those currently being taught to your meeting.
Explain to the group that you want missionaries to improve their ability to share their important message.
Select a lesson and a skill.
Have the missionaries teach the person or people the lesson you have selected for 20 minutes, focusing on the skill you have identified.
Have them switch who they teach after 20 minutes.
After the missionaries have had an opportunity to teach, bring the group together and have the person or people tell the missionaries what was most effective and one way they can improve.
Show video examples of missionaries teaching or contacting people.
Select a skill and discuss as a group how well the missionaries in the video applied the principles for that skill.
Select a skill or an important aspect of a skill, and identify doctrine or scripture passages that support the skill.
Teach the doctrinal foundation of the skill to the missionaries.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Occasionally accompany missionaries as they teach.
Plan with them how you can participate in the teaching.
Encourage priesthood and auxiliary leaders to accompany missionaries in their teaching visits and provide feedback.
Demonstrate the effective use of scriptures, questions, and listening when teaching missionaries in zone conferences, mission leadership council, interviews, and while teaching with them.
Notes
11
How Do I Help People Make and Keep Commitments?
Image
Christ with fishermen
© 2002 Del Parson.
Do not copy.
Consider This
Why should I focus on inviting people to make commitments?
How do commitments relate to conversion?
How can I bear humble testimony?
What blessings can I promise?
Why is it important for me to follow up when people make commitments?
Extend Invitations
As a missionary, you desire the salvation of souls (see
Mosiah 28:3
).
You know that people can come unto Christ and be saved only on conditions of repentance (see
Doctrine and Covenants 18:10–16
).
One way to fulfill your desires is to cry repentance (see
Alma 5:49
;
Doctrine and Covenants 15:6
;
16:6
) and boldly invite people to exercise faith unto repentance, to be baptized by water and the Spirit, and to endure faithfully to the end (see
3 Nephi 27:16–20
;
Mormon 7:10
).
Commitment is an essential part of repentance.
It is the act of obligating oneself to a course of action and then diligently following through on that decision.
When people are genuinely committed, they have real intent, meaning that they fully intend to do what they have committed to do.
They make an unwavering and earnest decision to change.
They become devoted to Christ and dedicate themselves to His gospel.
Keeping their commitment is how they “truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins” (
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
).
When you ask for commitments as part of your teaching, you are inviting people to repent.
Commitment is also an essential part of making and keeping covenants.
Elder Jeffrey R.
Holland taught: “When you teach [people] to keep their commitments, you are teaching them to become covenant-keepers” (“Making and Keeping Covenants,” missionary satellite broadcast, April 25, 1997).
People who keep commitments before baptism are more likely to make and keep covenants after baptism.
Making and keeping covenants is an essential part of the gospel of Jesus Christ and God’s plan for His children.
One of the best ways to help people make and keep commitments is to extend an invitation.
Extending and following up on invitations is vital because:
Image
Christ teaching in the synagogue
© 2001 Simon Dewey.
Do not copy.
People become converted as they live the principles they learn (see
John 7:17
) and feel the Spirit confirm that what they are doing is pleasing to their Father in Heaven.
Repentance and change will help people conquer challenges, rid themselves of shame and guilt, and experience the peace and joy of God’s forgiveness.
Keeping commitments prepares people to make and keep sacred covenants.
You can show your love for the people and your faith in God’s promises by following up to help them repent and keep their commitments.
The commitments required for baptism are listed in the first four lessons.
The commitments related to spiritual progress after baptism and confirmation are listed in
lesson 5
.
Be constantly aware of the need to invite people to do things that will strengthen their faith in Christ.
Remember the following principles:
Every finding opportunity—with members, referrals, or personal contacting—should lead to an invitation to act, usually to learn more about the message of the Restoration.
Rarely, if ever, should you talk to people or teach them without extending an invitation to do something that will strengthen their faith in Christ.
Focus on one or more invitations when you teach.
If you do not invite people to make commitments, you are not asking them to repent and come to Christ.
As you prepare in companion study to teach a lesson, consider the needs and progress of each person and include one or more invitations in your lesson plan.
During a lesson you may be inspired to extend invitations other than those you planned.
Always invite people to repent.
Be bold and confident as you invite people to make commitments (see
Alma 38:12
).
Boldness shows your faith that obedience to the Lord’s commandments brings blessings.
People will not likely change unless they are invited to do so.
Scripture Study
Why is it so vital to extend invitations?
Alma 5:62
Moroni 7:13
Why are commitments so important?
2 Nephi 31
Mosiah 2:41
Alma 7:14–16
Alma 32:27
Doctrine and Covenants 14:7
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
John 7:17
Ask Direct Questions
An invitation often takes the form of a “will you” question, which requires a
yes
or
no
response.
Invitations should be specific, direct, and clear.
They invite or lead people to decide on a course of action.
They require them to make a commitment and to exercise active faith in the principles you have taught them.
Following are some examples of good invitations, followed by the beginning of a promise and testimony:
Will you read [
3 Nephi 11
,
Moroni 10:3–5
] before our visit tomorrow at 7:00 p.m.?
I know that doing so will … I testify that the Book of Mormon is …
Will you pray and ask God whether Joseph Smith was a prophet?
I know that as you pray God will … I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet …
Will you attend church with us this Sunday at 9:00 a.m.?
If you do, you will … I know that Christ’s Church has been restored …
Will you begin now to live the law of chastity as we have explained it?
Living this law will … As a servant of the Lord I testify that living a chaste life …
Will you invite [name] before Friday to meet with us and begin learning about the gospel?
The Spirit will help you … Sharing the gospel will bless your life …
May we come to your home and tell you more about how God has called a prophet in our day as He did in ancient times?
Increased purpose, direction, and peace will come into your life as you come to understand … I testify that God has again called …
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
In your study journal, write an invitation that is simple, direct, and clear for each commitment in a lesson.
If you have done this activity before, repeat it and compare your new invitations with previous versions.
Ask yourself whether your ability to extend invitations has improved.
Review the invitations you have written with your companion.
For each invitation, discuss the following questions:
Do I explain the Lord’s promised blessings as I extend invitations?
If not, why?
Do I avoid extending this invitation?
If so, why?
Do I feel awkward when I extend this invitation?
How can I improve?
How important is this invitation to me personally?
How often do I remember to follow up on invitations I have extended?
How can I improve?
Think of contacts or people you are teaching, and practice extending these invitations as though you were addressing them.
As necessary, revise the invitations in your lesson plan.
Set specific goals that will help you extend invitations throughout the day and week.
Promise People Blessings
People need a reason to change their thoughts and actions.
Promised blessings often provide powerful motivation to obey God.
When the Lord gives a commandment, He often promises blessings for keeping that commandment (see
Doctrine and Covenants 130:20–21
).
As you prepare people to obey a specific commandment, teach them that:
Living the commandments shows love for God and His Son.
They demonstrate their trust in God as they obey His commandments.
In return, they will receive blessings that He has promised, including the greatest of all blessings, that of eternal life and exaltation for those who keep all His commandments.
As you testify of a commandment, talk about the blessings you have received from living that commandment.
Promise those whom you teach that they can enjoy similar blessings.
As people strive to keep a commitment, ask them to talk about the blessings that Heavenly Father has given them.
Assure them that even though difficulties will enter their lives, His blessings will continue as they obey His will.
Scripture Study
What does the Lord say about His desire to bless us?
Alma 37:17
Doctrine and Covenants 1:37
Doctrine and Covenants 76:5–10
Activity: Personal Study
Read Doctrine and Covenants
82:10
and
130:20–21
.
Then study the following scriptures.
Make two columns in your study journal.
On one side write the commandment you find in each passage.
On the other side write the promise for keeping the commandment.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:21
Doctrine and Covenants 50:5
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85
Doctrine and Covenants 89:18–21
Doctrine and Covenants 95:8–9
Doctrine and Covenants 100:5–8
Malachi 3:10–12
Review the invitations listed in one of the missionary lessons.
For each invitation, answer these questions:
What blessings has the Lord promised to those who keep this commitment?
How will obeying this principle help people increase their faith and testimony?
How will this commitment help people repent and be more sensitive to the Spirit?
Bear Testimony Frequently
A testimony is a spiritual witness and assurance given by the Holy Ghost.
To bear testimony is to give a simple, direct declaration of belief—a feeling, an assurance, a conviction of gospel truth.
Sharing your testimony often is one of the most powerful ways of inviting the Spirit and helping others feel the Spirit.
It adds a current, personal witness to the truths you have taught from the scriptures.
An effective missionary teaches, testifies, and invites others to do things that build faith in Jesus Christ.
This includes making promises that come from living true principles.
For example, a missionary might say, “I know as you keep the Sabbath day holy, you will find more peace in your heart.”
“Regarding one’s testimony, remember, that which one willingly shares he keeps, while that which he selfishly keeps he loses. … Teach and testify.
There is no better combination.”
—President Thomas S.
Monson
Pathways to Perfection
(1973), 100–101
For your testimony to have convincing power, you must be sincere.
Powerful testimony is not dependent on eloquence or the volume of your voice but on the conviction of your heart.
Strive daily to strengthen your understanding and conviction of the doctrine and principles you are to teach.
Bear testimony often to seal the truth of the principles or doctrine you are teaching.
As often as possible, teach, then testify, and testify as you teach.
Image
Abinadi preaching
Your testimony may be as simple as “Jesus Christ is the Son of God” or “I have learned for myself that the Book of Mormon is true.” You may also share a brief experience about how you gained this knowledge.
Bear testimony several times in each lesson, not just at the end.
Bear testimony that what your companion has taught is from God.
Bear testimony that the principle you are going to teach will bless the person’s life if he or she will follow it.
Talk about how living a principle has blessed your life.
People may sometimes intellectually question what you teach, but it is difficult to question a sincere, heartfelt testimony.
When you testify, pray that those you are teaching will feel the confirming witness of the Holy Ghost.
When you testify, you help create an environment for people to feel the Holy Ghost confirming your witness of the truth.
This prepares them to accept the invitations you will extend.
Brigham Young was not baptized into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints during the first year of his learning about the restored gospel.
But of his conversion he said: “If all the talent, tact, wisdom, and refinement of the world had been sent to me with the Book of Mormon, and had declared, in the most exalted of earthly eloquence, the truth of it, undertaking to prove it by learning and worldly wisdom, they would have been to me like smoke which arises only to vanish away.
But when I saw a man without eloquence or talents for public speaking, who could only say, ‘I know by the power of the
Holy Ghost that the Book of Mormon is true, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the Lord,’ the Holy Ghost proceeding from that individual illuminated my understanding, and a light, glory, and immortality were before me.
I was encircled by them, filled with them, and I knew for myself that the testimony of the man was true” (in
Journal of Discourses,
1:90).
Activity: Personal Study
The passages below are examples of bearing testimony.
Read each of the questions and scriptures.
Write your answers in your study journal.
In these verses, of what do the apostles and prophets testify?
How strongly do they believe what they are saying?
How can you tell that they are convinced of the truth?
When you say, “I know that _____ is true,” what do you mean?
What other words can you use to convey your convictions?
Jacob 7:7–12
Alma 5:45–48
Alma 34:1, 8
Doctrine and Covenants 76:22–24
John 3:3–11
Acts 2:14–38
Acts 10:34–44
Scripture Study
What are some principles and promises of bearing testimony?
2 Nephi 33:1
Doctrine and Covenants 62:3
Doctrine and Covenants 84:61
Doctrine and Covenants 100:5–8
John 15:26
Follow Up
Extending an invitation without following up is like beginning a journey without finishing it or buying a ticket to a concert without going into the theater.
Without the completed action, the commitment is hollow.
Change can be hard.
Your role is to help strengthen people in their resolve to change.
You should do all you can to help people keep their commitments.
Genuine repentance is best demonstrated by righteous actions over a period of time, especially for commandments such as chastity, the Word of Wisdom, and tithing.
As you and ward leaders work with people to help them keep their commitments, show understanding.
Be patient but persistent.
You have not finished your ministry until people are living these commitments, or in other words, until they have repented (see
3 Nephi 18:32
).
Sometimes several visits may be necessary for you to help people develop strong enough faith in a principle to lead to repentance.
Following up begins when you first visit and teach people:
Have them record their commitment, perhaps on their phone or calendar or on something you leave with them, such as a card with your names and phone number.
Make sure people know that you or member friends will make brief contact with them daily between teaching appointments.
Determine which method of communication they would prefer (brief visit, phone call, text message, email, social media message, and so on).
Explain that your purpose in following up is to support and help them.
Give them an idea of what you will do when you make contact each day.
Be respectful of people’s time and wishes.
Make daily contact positive and comfortable to encourage and uplift those you teach.
Record specific notes to follow up tomorrow on every invitation you have extended today.
Make frequent contact, daily if possible, to find out how people are progressing with their commitments, answer questions, help them overcome challenges, teach additional lessons, read together from the Book of Mormon, share passages of scripture, introduce them to members, or share relevant Church media.
As you contact and visit people often, you will strengthen the spiritual feelings they felt as you taught them the message of the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
This sustaining influence of the Spirit is vital.
There may be times when you call the people you are teaching to remind and encourage them to keep a commitment.
Help people identify the blessings they have received as they have kept their commitments.
Especially help them describe their feelings as the Spirit has testified of the truthfulness of the message.
Compliment and encourage people who are succeeding in keeping commitments.
The people you are teaching are changing their lives.
They have a lot to learn and to do.
Sincerely and frequently praise them.
Express your gratitude for their progress and your confidence that they can succeed.
Encourage them whenever you are with them.
Express concern and disappointment when people fail to keep their commitments and thus fail to experience the blessings.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Write in your daily planner your plans for daily contact with each person you are teaching.
Plan several days in advance what you will do to follow up with each person.
Choose one invitation you will extend when you teach the lessons.
Then identify different concerns which might keep someone from accepting or keeping that commitment.
Discuss and practice how you can best help people as they work to resolve their concerns.
Remember This
Focus on inviting people to make commitments in every finding or teaching situation, both with those who are not members of the Church and with Church members.
Extend invitations to help people experience conversion.
Promise blessings.
Bear testimony.
Follow through to help people keep commitments.
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Identify a commandment listed in either
lesson 4
or
5
.
Think of the blessings you have received from obeying this commandment, and write them in your journal.
When you write home, ask your family members how they have been blessed by obeying a specific commandment (for example, tithing).
Write how you feel about extending invitations.
Are you bold or timid?
Are you confident that people will be blessed, or do you have doubts?
Are you consistent, patient, and helpful as you make daily contact?
Do the people know you love them?
How can you correct any weakness you identify in your invitations?
Review your lesson plans for each lesson.
Do you include specific invitations?
Does your lesson plan lead clearly to invitations to act?
Companion Study
From your planning tools, make a list of people you have contacted in the past two days, including those you are teaching and members.
For each person, write the commitment or commitments they made and other invitations you could have or should have extended.
Discuss why you were able to obtain commitments from some of these people and what prevented you from obtaining commitments from others.
What will you do to follow up on these invitations?
Look at your planning tools, and write the names of specific people you will teach in the next day or two.
Consider which commandment or commandments listed in
lessons 4
and
5
you will invite them to live.
Discuss how you will extend the invitation and the specific blessings you will promise for obedience.
Consider showing the Teaching Record to the people you are teaching to let them know what will be expected.
If appropriate, share a copy with them.
Review your notes for the past three days to see if you have written your assignments to follow up on every invitation you have extended.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Discuss effective and creative ideas for daily contact with people you are teaching.
How have missionaries worked with members effectively?
What printed or digital media are useful?
What can you do when people are not home or are too busy to see you?
Discuss ways that missionaries have effectively taught the commandments in
lessons 4
and
5
.
Discuss specific concerns of some of the people you are currently teaching.
What are the nature of these concerns?
What can the missionaries do to resolve the concerns?
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
When possible, accompany missionaries as they teach.
Help them focus on helping people make and keep commitments.
Encourage priesthood leaders, auxiliary leaders, and members to actively participate in making daily contact with those you are teaching.
Be an example of extending invitations in your missionary efforts and with the missionaries you serve.
Notes
12
How Do I Prepare People for Baptism and Confirmation?
Image
baptism of Christ
© 1988 Greg K.
Olsen.
Courtesy Mill Pond Press and Dr.
Gerry Hooper.
Do not copy.
Consider This
What do I need to do to help prepare people for baptism and confirmation?
How do I conduct an effective baptismal interview?
How is a spiritual baptismal service planned and conducted?
How do I work closely with the bishop to ensure that converts are confirmed?
Why is it important to complete baptismal and confirmation records?
Prepare People for Baptism and Confirmation
The purpose of your teaching is to help others develop faith in Jesus Christ and repent of their sins.
As Mormon taught, “the first fruits of repentance is baptism” (
Moroni 8:25
).
The baptismal interview is the way established by the Church to ensure that each candidate meets the Lord’s standards for baptism and is prepared to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Through this interview, baptismal candidates fulfill the scriptural requirement that they witness before an authorized representative of the Church that they have “truly repented of all their sins” (
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
).
The commitments that people make prepare them to make and keep the covenant of baptism, be confirmed a member of the Church, receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, enter the temple with a limited-use recommend, and receive the Aaronic Priesthood (for males of the appropriate age).
People who have kept the commitments that you invited them to make will be well prepared for the interview and for membership and activity in the Church.
As you teach people and prepare them for baptism and confirmation, make sure that they meet the qualifications for baptism.
As they embark on the covenant path, remember that path leads to the holy temple, where they receive blessings necessary for eternal life.
Qualifications for Baptism
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
:
Humble themselves before God.
Desire to be baptized.
Come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits.
Repent of all their sins.
Be willing to take upon them the name of Christ.
Have a determination to serve Christ to the end.
Manifest by their works that they have received the Spirit of Christ unto a remission of their sins.
First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve:
Make sufficient changes in their lives to qualify as commanded in
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
.
Develop faith in Christ.
Repent of transgressions.
Live the principles of moral worthiness.
Live the Word of Wisdom.
Commit to pay tithing.
Receive all the missionary lessons.
Meet the bishop.
Attend several sacrament meetings.
(“Statement on Missionary Work,” First Presidency letter, Dec.
11, 2002)
When a person has set a firm baptismal date, schedule when you will complete all the events that lead to baptism and confirmation as listed in your daily planner.
Carefully review the Teaching Record to ensure that you have taught the basic doctrine and that the candidates are prepared to address each question in the baptismal interview.
Review this schedule with the person in your next meeting.
If possible, the person should attend a baptismal service prior to his or her own baptism.
If you feel that the person you are teaching needs additional preparation, do not schedule an interview until he or she meets the standards.
If the candidate is a minor, ensure that the parents or guardians have given permission, preferably in writing, for him or her to be baptized.
As you help people prepare for their baptismal interview, talk to them about the purpose of the interview.
Teach them and bear testimony about the sacredness of baptism and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Explain that you want to make sure they understand the principles you have taught and the covenant they will make.
Also explain that the interview is an opportunity for them to witness before the Lord’s representative that they are ready for these sacred ordinances.
As they keep the baptismal covenant, they will receive a remission of sins.
Share the questions the interviewer will ask about their belief in important gospel doctrine, their repentance of past sins, and their willingness to covenant to obey Jesus Christ throughout their lives.
Emphasize that baptism by water is incomplete without baptism by fire through the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Remind the person that immediately after baptism and confirmation, he or she is worthy and eligible to receive a limited-use recommend to enter the temple to perform baptisms for deceased ancestors, and males of the appropriate age may also be ordained to the Aaronic Priesthood.
This will help set the person on the path toward making temple covenants that open the door to eternal life.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Read each of the following passages, and make a summary list of the scriptural qualifications for baptism and confirmation.
2 Nephi 9:23
;
31:4–13
Mosiah 18:8–10
Alma 7:14–15
3 Nephi 27:13–21
Moroni 6:1–4
Moroni 8:25–26
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
Doctrine and Covenants 22
Acts 2:37–39
In baptismal interviews, candidates are asked whether they are willing to take upon themselves the name of Christ.
What can you do to help them understand this question?
As you ponder this question, study the following scriptures:
Mosiah 4–5
Mosiah 18:1–11
Mosiah 26:18, 21–27
3 Nephi 27:1–10
You may also want to look for other passages that help you understand this principle.
How to Conduct the Interview
The person conducting the interview should use the baptismal interview questions with the guidance of the Spirit to determine whether the baptismal candidate meets the qualifications described in
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
.
He should also adapt the questions to the age and maturity of the candidate.
If a candidate does not qualify according to the baptismal interview questions, the baptism and confirmation should be postponed.
The person should receive additional teaching by the full-time missionaries and fellowshipping from ward members.
The district leader or zone leader who conducts the interview should:
Hold the interview in a comfortable, private place, conducive to feeling the Spirit of the Lord.
When interviewing a child, youth, or woman, the interviewer’s companion should be nearby in the adjoining room, foyer, or hall.
If the person being interviewed desires, another adult may be invited to participate in the interview.
Missionaries should avoid all circumstances that could be misunderstood (see “
Preventing and Responding to Abuse
,” First Presidency letter, March 26, 2018).
Open with prayer.
Help the candidate feel comfortable.
Make the interview a spiritually uplifting experience.
Make sure that the candidate understands the purpose of the interview.
Ask the baptismal interview questions.
Use follow-up questions to get a feeling for the strength of the person’s testimony and the sincerity of the person’s repentance.
Answer the candidate’s questions.
Invite the person to bear testimony and express his or her feelings.
If the person has challenges with testimony or worthiness, explain that it would be best to postpone the baptism until he or she is better prepared.
Baptismal Interview Questions
Do you believe that God is our Eternal Father?
Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Savior and Redeemer of the world?
Do you believe that the Church and gospel of Jesus Christ have been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith?
Do you believe that [current Church President] is a prophet of God?
What does this mean to you?
What does it mean to you to repent?
Do you feel that you have repented of your past transgressions?
Have you ever committed a serious crime?
If so, are you now on probation or parole?
Have you ever participated in an abortion?
Have you ever committed a homosexual transgression?
You have been taught that membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints includes living gospel standards.
What do you understand about the following standards?
Are you willing to obey them?
The law of chastity, which prohibits any sexual relationship outside the bonds of a legal marriage between one man and one woman.
The law of tithing.
The Word of Wisdom.
The Sabbath day, including partaking of the sacrament weekly and rendering service to others.
When you are baptized, you covenant with God that you are willing to take upon yourself the name of Christ and keep His commandments throughout your life.
Are you ready to make this covenant and strive to be faithful to it?
At the conclusion of a successful interview, congratulate the candidate.
Rejoin the other missionaries, and explain what will happen at the baptismal service.
Explain that the confirmation will take place under the direction of the bishop in a sacrament meeting of the ward in which they reside.
When it is necessary to postpone a baptism, the district leader or zone leader and other missionaries should handle the situation sensitively and privately.
Assure the candidate that he or she can succeed, and explain that some transgressions require more time for thorough repentance.
Explain that the sacred nature of the ordinance requires high standards of worthiness.
Assure the candidate that you and others will do all you can to support him or her.
Then faithfully follow through to keep your promise.
Baptism and Confirmation: Questions and Answers
Who conducts the interview for baptism?
Normally the district leader interviews baptismal candidates taught by missionaries in his district, including candidates taught by his zone leaders.
The zone leader interviews candidates taught by the district leader.
The mission president or one of his counselors must interview people involved in serious sins.
District or zone leaders do not interview baptismal candidates outside their own district or zone unless the mission president assigns them to do so.
What is the definition of a convert baptism?
Convert baptisms are baptisms of:
Persons ages nine and older who have never been baptized and confirmed as members of the Church.
Children age eight whose parents are not members of the Church or whose parents are being baptized and confirmed at the same time as the child.
Do I need permission to baptize a minor child?
The Church’s concern with respect to children is their current and future well-being and the harmony of their home environment.
For their protection, the following conditions must be met before you can baptize a minor child under legal age, as defined by local laws:
You must obtain permission from both parent(s) or legal guardian(s), and they must understand the doctrine that a baptized child will be taught and the covenants he or she will be expected to make.
You may ask for this consent to be in writing if you feel it will help prevent misunderstandings.
You have discerned that there is clear evidence that the child understands the baptismal covenant and will make every effort to keep it through obeying the commandments, including faithfully attending Church meetings.
The child’s primary residence is not with parents who are polygamists.
If one or both of the child’s parents are polygamists, you must contact the mission president for additional information.
The baptism is not prohibited by local laws and culture.
Do I need permission of the spouse in order to baptize a husband or wife?
Yes.
Do not baptize a married person without the consent of his or her spouse.
If a parent in a family is not ready for baptism, should I baptize the family or wait until the parent is ready?
If a parent of a family is not ready for baptism and confirmation but other family members are, you may tell the parent you prefer not to baptize the family without him or her because the Church respects the wishes of the parents and because family members will progress in the gospel best as a family unit.
If the parent continues to decline, you may baptize and confirm other family members with his or her consent.
Is it a good idea to ordain a father to the Aaronic Priesthood immediately after baptism so that he can baptize other family members?
No.
The father must be confirmed in a sacrament meeting and, after an interview with the bishop, be sustained to receive the Aaronic Priesthood.
Baptisms of family members should not be delayed so that the father can receive the priesthood and perform the baptisms himself.
May I teach and baptize a person who has been excommunicated?
Baptisms of excommunicated persons are not convert baptisms, and missionaries do not interview such persons for baptism.
You may work with such persons only under the close supervision of the mission president and bishop.
What if a person has a scheduled baptismal date but is not keeping all of the commitments?
If you feel that someone you are teaching needs additional preparation, do not schedule a baptismal interview until he or she is keeping the commitments and meets the standards.
What do I do when people want to be baptized but are living together without being married?
Baptismal candidates who have been living with a person of the opposite gender out of wedlock must either marry or stop living together before they can be baptized.
Question 4 in the baptismal interview asks if a person has ever committed a serious crime (if so, are they on probation or parole), participated in an abortion, or committed a homosexual transgression.
What should I do if someone confesses such a sin?
Instructions for teaching missionaries.
Sometimes a person may volunteer information about such sins as you teach about the commandments and invite them to make commitments.
However, if they do not say anything but you think they may have a problem, prepare them for the baptismal interview by asking them if they have been involved in any of these sins.
If you become aware of a serious sin, do not ask about the details of the sin.
Do not schedule a baptismal date or make any promises about whether they will be cleared for baptism and confirmation.
Express your love and review the principle of repentance and forgiveness.
Kindly explain that these sins are serious and that a person with more maturity and experience (your mission president or someone he assigns) will talk with them and help them with these matters.
Always provide hope in Christ’s Atonement.
Then send a baptismal interview request directly to the mission president.
Instructions for the person conducting the interview for baptism.
If the missionaries have properly taught the candidate before the baptismal interview, these issues, if they exist, should have been directed to the mission president.
However, if they arise during the interview, express your love and review the commandments and the principle of repentance and forgiveness.
Kindly explain that these sins are serious and that a person with more maturity and experience (your mission president or someone he assigns) will talk with them and help them with these matters.
Always provide hope in Christ’s Atonement.
Then forward a baptismal interview request directly to the mission president.
Activity: Personal Study
Think about how you might feel if you were being interviewed.
Consider the following questions:
What aspects of the interview might be strange to you?
What could the interviewer do or say to put you at ease?
How would you want the interviewer to interact with you?
How would you want the interviewer to respond if you expressed doubts or misunderstandings or if you confessed serious sins?
Write your answers to these questions in your study journal.
Complete the Baptism and Confirmation Form (Convert)
The missionary who conducts the interview should fill out a current Baptism and Confirmation Form (Convert), except the information about confirmation.
He should explain that a membership record is created from the Baptism and Confirmation Form (Convert) and will contain important information about the new members and the ordinances they have received.
The missionary should ask the candidate to verify the information on the form during the interview.
The missionary who conducts the interview should bring the Baptism and Confirmation Form (Convert) to the baptismal service and give it to the person who is presiding.
The bishop ensures that a Baptism and Confirmation Form (Convert) is filled out for each candidate according to instructions on the form.
Whenever members move, the membership record is forwarded to the new unit so that their new bishop can provide fellowship and assistance.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Study
Mosiah 6:1–3
and
Moroni 6:1–4
.
How do these passages relate to your responsibility for keeping accurate records of baptisms and confirmations?
The Baptismal Service
The Spirit is manifest strongly as the sacred ordinances of baptism and confirmation are performed.
The baptismal service and subsequent confirmation should be spiritual highlights for new converts.
You and the ward mission leader should do everything you can to ensure that the baptismal service is organized, inspiring, and memorable.
These services should strengthen the new converts in their commitment to remain active.
Image
man being baptised
Invite a member of the bishopric, quorum and auxiliary leaders, and ministering brothers and sisters (if assigned) to attend the baptismal service.
Encourage the person being baptized to invite his or her friends and relatives (for example, by creating an event on social media) to attend the baptismal service and the sacrament meeting where the confirmation will take place.
Consider inviting other people you are teaching to attend.
These experiences will help them feel the Spirit and prepare them to accept an invitation to learn more about the gospel.
Work with the person being baptized and the ward mission leader to invite the person’s friends and relatives to attend.
Then follow through after the service to discuss their experience and invite them to learn why their friend chose to be baptized.
The missionaries who taught the person being baptized coordinate with the ward mission leader to organize the service.
If a baptismal service is scheduled on a Sunday, it should be held at a time that minimizes interference with regular Sunday meetings.
Explain to the person being baptized what is planned and why.
Discuss proper dress, including how the person will be given white clothing to wear for the baptism.
Agree on the place and time for the baptism.
A member of the bishopric or the ward mission leader normally conducts the service.
Following are essential items to plan and organize.
A baptismal service may include:
Prelude music.
A brief welcome by the priesthood leader who is conducting the service (a member of the bishopric should preside, if possible).
An opening hymn and prayer.
One or two short talks on gospel subjects, such as baptism and the Holy Ghost.
A musical selection.
Performance of the baptism.
A time of reverence while the people who participate in the baptism change into dry clothes.
This could include interlude music or singing well-known hymns and Primary songs.
It could also include a brief gospel presentation by the full-time missionaries for nonmembers who may be present.
An opportunity for new converts to bear their testimonies, if desired.
A closing hymn and prayer.
Postlude music.
Confirmation
Image
man being confirmed
A person receives the ordinance of confirmation after he or she has been baptized (see
Doctrine and Covenants 20:41
).
A new convert is considered a member of the Church only after the ordinances of baptism and confirmation are both completed and properly recorded (see
John 3:5
;
Doctrine and Covenants 33:11
).
Converts are confirmed in a sacrament meeting in the ward where they live, preferably on the Sunday following their baptism.
Converts are not confirmed at the baptismal service.
The bishop is responsible for seeing that confirmation occurs as soon as reasonable after baptism.
At least one member of the bishopric participates in the confirmation.
The bishop should invite missionary elders who helped teach the convert to participate in the confirmation.
Work closely with the bishop and the ward mission leader to make sure this essential ordinance is performed.
The bishop does not conduct a separate interview for this ordinance.
After the confirmation, the bishop or ward clerk completes the confirmation information on the Baptism and Confirmation Form (Convert).
The ward clerk then returns two copies of the form to the missionaries.
The missionaries send one copy to the mission office for the creation of a membership record.
After the Baptism and Confirmation
Under the direction of the bishop, missionaries should continue to fellowship new members.
Continue to teach them and review what has been taught.
Encourage and support them, read the Book of Mormon with them, and help them share the gospel with family members and friends.
As appropriate, continue throughout your life to communicate with those whom you have taught and to encourage and support them.
After the confirmation, teach all five missionary lessons again.
Continue using the Teaching Record to record progress.
Work closely with the ward mission leader and ward leadership to help the new convert stay active, build trusted relationships with local members, receive a limited-use temple recommend, and be ordained to the Aaronic Priesthood (for males of the appropriate age).
Support new converts and help them receive all the blessings of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
Remember This
Properly prepare baptismal candidates for the interview for baptism and confirmation.
Make sure candidates meet the requirements for baptism and confirmation.
Help ensure that baptismal services are spiritually uplifting.
Use baptismal services and confirmations as finding opportunities.
Accurately complete the Baptism and Confirmation Form (Convert).
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Make a list of the challenges that a baptismal candidate might encounter.
Why is it important that candidates feel the love and friendship of Church members?
Study
Moroni 6
and
Doctrine and Covenants 20:68–69
.
What do you learn from these verses about preparing people for baptism and confirmation?
Write what you learn, and share your thoughts with your companion during companion study.
Companion Study
President Henry B.
Eyring explained why high standards are important.
Discuss this counsel with your companion and evaluate how you feel about boldly helping people meet these standards. “The Lord sets His standards so that He can bless us.
Think about those blessings: He promises those who meet the standards the help of the Holy Ghost.
He promises personal peace.
He promises the chance to receive holy ordinances in His house.
And He promises those who endure in living His standards that they will have eternal life. … Because we love the people we serve, all of us want to do better in lifting our Heavenly Father’s children to the faithfulness and purity they need to have all the blessings of the Lord. … You begin by holding up the Lord’s standards clearly and without apology.
And the more the world drifts from them and mocks them, the bolder we must be in doing that” (“Standards of Worthiness,”
First Worldwide Leadership Training Meeting,
Jan.
2003, 10–11).
Share with your companion what you have learned from this chapter about preparing people for baptism and confirmation.
Review the last baptismal service you attended.
Compare it with the guidelines in the section titled
“The Baptismal Service.”
What went well?
What could have been improved?
Discuss how you will make sure that the services you plan will be spiritual and uplifting.
Practice how you would prepare a specific person for the baptismal interview.
Review the baptismal interview questions.
Consider how you would handle different situations, such as the following:
The candidate didn’t tell you that he is on probation for a crime previously committed.
The person has not received a strong answer to prayer that Joseph Smith was a prophet.
The candidate smoked a cigarette two days ago.
The candidate isn’t sure whether she has received an answer to her prayers.
The family felt pressure from friends and aren’t sure whether they are ready for baptism.
Review the Baptism and Confirmation Form (Convert).
How can you ensure that the information you provide is correct and complete?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Review the importance of the baptismal interview.
Discuss how missionaries should prepare people for the interview.
Discuss how to use baptismal services and confirmations as finding opportunities.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Work with local priesthood and auxiliary leaders to ensure effective use of the Progress Record.
Teach district leaders, zone leaders, and sister training leaders how to prepare people for the baptismal interview.
Invite mission leaders to train other missionaries to prepare people for the baptismal interview.
Teach district leaders and zone leaders how to conduct baptismal interviews.
Instruct the members of the mission presidency and priesthood leaders how to conduct baptismal interviews for baptismal candidates who have committed serious sins.
When possible, attend baptismal services for new converts.
Take some time to talk with the new converts and learn their conversion experiences.
Share what you learn with your companion and with other missionaries.
Notes
13
How Do I Work with Stake and Ward Leaders?
Image
Christ teaching
© 2003 Simon Dewey.
Do not copy.
Consider This
What do new converts and returning members need in order to become active members of the Church?
What are the responsibilities of stake and ward leaders in missionary work, retention, and activation?
How can I help ward leaders establish the Church?
What should happen in the weekly coordination meeting with the ward mission leader?
You have the great opportunity of working with many leaders and members during your mission.
Together you will strengthen and establish The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
The relationships you establish with Church leaders will bless you for the rest of your life.
These are important relationships as you and Church members seek to bring the restored gospel to Heavenly Father’s children.
Understanding the basics of how to work within the ward organization will help you move forward with greater focus and power.
Strengthening New and Returning Members
When converts are baptized and confirmed, they make sacred promises to obey and serve God and others for the rest of their lives.
They become candidates for salvation in the celestial kingdom.
To receive the promised blessings, they must endure to the end with faith in Jesus Christ.
Church members are essential in helping new converts remain active and faithful.
President Gordon B.
Hinckley said: “There is absolutely no point in doing missionary work unless we hold on to the fruits of that effort.
The two must be inseparable. … Every convert is a great and serious responsibility” (“
Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep
,”
Ensign,
May 1999, 108).
Under the direction of the bishop, the ward council has first responsibility for strengthening new members and returning members.
They make sure that new converts and returning members have friends, are nourished by the word of God, and receive callings and responsibilities.
They may request that full-time missionaries help minister to and visit new members, returning members, and prospective elders.
Preferably you will be paired with a member for such visits.
You are also responsible for these people.
President Hinckley said: “You missionaries … are part of this responsibility of binding your converts to the Church.
You may not be able to continue to visit them.
But you can write to them occasionally and give them encouragement. … When you go home do not forget them.
At all times live worthy of their trust.
Write to them occasionally, assuring them of your love” (“
Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep
,” 109).
Image
temple
When attending Church meetings, you and your companion should sit with visitors or members you have been fellowshipping to support and strengthen them.
You should not sit in a group with other missionaries.
A vital part of your mission is to establish the Church and strengthen the unit in which you serve.
You do this in part by helping new converts remain active and by helping returning members become active.
One of your duties is to lead out in teaching all five missionary lessons to new members after baptism and, when appropriate, to returning members.
Ward missionaries and ministering brothers and sisters can also help teach these principles.
President Gordon B.
Hinckley related the following concerning the challenges many new converts face:
I received the other day a very interesting letter.
It was written by a woman who joined the Church a year ago.
She writes:
“My journey into the Church was unique and quite challenging.
This past year has been the hardest year that I have ever lived in my life.
It has also been the most rewarding.
As a new member, I continue to be challenged every day.”
She goes on to say that when she joined the Church she did not feel support from the leadership in her ward.
Her bishop seemed indifferent to her as a new member.
Rebuffed, as she felt, she turned back to her mission president, who opened opportunities for her.
She states that “Church members don’t know what it is like to be a new member. … Therefore, it’s almost impossible for them to know how to support us.”
I challenge you, my brothers and sisters, that if you do not know what it is like, you try to imagine what it is like.
It can be terribly lonely.
It can be disappointing.
It can be frightening.
We of this Church are far more different from the world than we are prone to think we are.
This woman goes on: “When we … become members of the Church, we are surprised to discover that we have entered into a completely foreign world, a world that has its own traditions, culture, and language.
We discover that there is no one person or no one place of reference that we can turn to for guidance in our trip into this new world.
At first the trip is exciting, our mistakes even amusing, then it becomes frustrating and eventually, the frustration turns into anger.
And it’s at these stages of frustration and anger that we leave.
We go back to the world from which we came, where we knew who we were, where we contributed, and where we could speak the language” [“
Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep
,” 108].
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Read the previous account.
Write answers to the following questions in your study journal, or discuss them with your companion.
Make appropriate goals and plans.
According to this account, what are some of the factors that make it difficult for new members to remain active?
How can having members involved from the beginning of the teaching process help with these challenges?
Think of the people you are teaching.
How can members help them begin to make the social transition into the Church?
Ministering Assignments
With approval from the mission president, local leaders may consider asking full-time missionaries to assist in ministering assignments on a limited basis.
The mission president communicates this approval to the stake president, who informs bishops.
When such approval is given, full-time missionaries are assigned primarily to work with new members, part-member families, and returning members (see
Handbook 2: Administering the Church
[2010],
7.4.3
).
Work with the Ward Council to Strengthen New and Returning Members
Image
Christ helping children across river
© 1999 Greg K.
Olsen.
Courtesy Mill Pond Press.
Do not copy.
Teaching and baptizing new converts is under the direction of your mission president.
However, the work of proclaiming the gospel will move forward more powerfully when full-time missionaries and members coordinate their efforts and work in unity together.
You may often be invited to attend ward council meetings.
However, your first priority is to make sure that the people you are teaching are at church.
Frequently this will mean that you will accompany them.
If there is a conflict between attending ward council meeting and getting someone to church, do the latter.
In this case, provide a copy of the Progress Record to the ward mission leader and ensure that he has all the information needed for ward council.
President Gordon B.
Hinckley said:
“Every new convert needs three things:
A friend in the Church to whom he can constantly turn, who will walk beside him, who will answer his questions, who will understand his problems.
An assignment.
Activity is the genius of this Church.
It is the process by which we grow.
Faith and love for the Lord are like the muscle of my arm.
If I use them, they grow stronger.
If I put them in a sling, they become weaker.
Every convert deserves a responsibility. …
Every convert must be ‘nourished by the good word of God’ (
Moro.
6:4
).
It is imperative that he or she become affiliated with a priesthood quorum or the Relief Society, the Young Women, the Young Men, the Sunday School, or the Primary.
He or she must be encouraged to come to sacrament meeting to partake of the sacrament, to renew the covenants made at the time of baptism” (“
Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep
,” 108).
The ward council will take the lead in providing a friend, responsibility, and spiritual nourishment for new converts.
You will help them as requested.
Priesthood leaders and members will do the fellowshipping, with your assistance.
Friendship
Image
women talking
Before baptism and confirmation, ensure that members are present at every lesson, if possible.
These members should be with the people you are teaching often to answer their questions, understand their challenges, and encourage them.
Invite members to attend the baptismal service and to welcome new converts into the ward.
Members help new converts feel comfortable in various Church meetings.
They should also introduce them to other members.
Introduce people you are teaching to the bishop, his counselors, elders quorum and Relief Society presidents, and other ward leaders as soon as possible.
Explain the roles of the bishop and other ward leaders.
After someone is baptized and confirmed, ask ward leaders to assign them ministering brothers and ministering sisters as needed.
Opportunities to Serve
Help male converts understand and prepare to receive the Aaronic Priesthood and the Melchizedek Priesthood.
Explain that priesthood quorums provide opportunities to learn, worship, and serve together.
Involve new converts and returning members in service opportunities such as helping a widow or someone who is ill or participating in welfare projects.
Refer converts to temple and family history consultants so that they can begin their family tree using the
My Family
booklet or
FamilySearch.org
.
Set a date for converts to prepare to be baptized in the temple for their deceased ancestors within a month of their own baptism or to share within that same time frame a family file card with someone who can attend.
Doing family history and attending the temple and performing ordinances for deceased ancestors significantly increases convert retention because it can strengthen faith in the Savior.
Invite converts to prepare family members and friends to be taught by the missionaries.
The missionaries should ask new converts and returning members for referrals.
Nourishment by the Word of God
Teach all the missionary lessons before and after baptism.
Following baptism, see what questions new members have and address them.
Adapt the missionary lesson invitations to the new members’ current needs.
Remind new converts and returning members of commitments they made before baptism and the covenant they made when they were baptized and confirmed.
Encourage them to pray daily, personally and with their families.
Encourage them to study the scriptures daily, especially the Book of Mormon.
Strengthen new converts’ testimonies of the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Continue to teach the importance of attending church each Sunday and worthily partaking of the sacrament.
Attend and sit with new converts or returning members.
Teach them how to hold home evening one night a week using resources such as the Church’s website, the Gospel Library, or the Church magazines.
Encourage them to share the restored gospel with others.
Help them enroll in seminary or institute classes.
Make them aware of Church resources.
Scripture Study
Nourish with God’s Word
Mosiah 18:18–20
Alma 31:5
Moroni 6:4
Service
Mosiah 2:17
Matthew 25:40
Topical Guide, “
Serve
” and “
Service
”
What Is the Role of the Full-Time Mission President?
The full-time mission president holds the keys for convert baptisms.
Under his direction, full-time missionaries have primary responsibility for teaching the gospel to people not of our faith.
However, the bishop oversees the person’s progress and friendshipping as he or she is being taught.
The ward mission plan is carried out under the presiding authority of the bishop.
The mission president meets regularly with stake presidents to make sure that full-time missionaries cooperate with local priesthood leaders.
He coordinates missionary efforts and offers to help the stake president provide instruction in the principles and practices of missionary work.
What Are the Responsibilities of Stake and Ward Leaders?
Local Church leaders and members are your best allies.
Respect them and strive to build good relationships with them.
As you work with these leaders, remember that they have other responsibilities associated with their callings.
Seek to be a blessing, not a burden, to the leaders of your stake and ward.
Your attitude should be one of “How can we help?” Counsel with the bishop and ward mission leader concerning your plans and activities.
Make sure that what you do supports the ward mission plan.
The roles of local priesthood leadership in missionary work are described below.
Understanding their roles will help you better work with them.
Stake President
The stake president oversees bishops in their missionary, retention, and activation responsibilities.
In his monthly interview with bishops, he discusses plans and the progress of members and those being taught by missionaries.
He ensures that the doctrine relating to missionary work is taught regularly in stake and ward meetings and that priesthood leaders and others are trained in their missionary responsibilities.
The stake president also meets regularly with the mission president to coordinate missionary efforts, including the training of leaders and members, use and placement of full-time missionaries, and assistance in activation efforts.
High Councilor
A high councilor is assigned by the stake presidency to promote missionary, retention, and activation work in the stake.
He regularly reports the progress of this work to the stake presidency.
He also ensures that ward mission leaders are properly trained in their duties, including the preparation of a ward mission plan.
Bishop
Image
bishop speaking
The bishop is responsible for missionary, retention, and activation efforts in the ward.
His personal participation and leadership are essential.
To help accomplish this work, the bishop calls a worthy Melchizedek Priesthood holder to serve as the ward mission leader.
He also calls a sufficient number of ward missionaries to meet the needs in the ward.
The bishop uses the ward council to coordinate missionary, retention, and activation efforts.
He gives direction to developing and carrying out a ward mission plan.
Activity: Companion Study
Plan a time to meet with the bishop.
Seek his guidance on how you can best serve in the ward.
Priesthood and Auxiliary Leaders
Priesthood and auxiliary leaders should regularly review the status of new members and returning members and plan how to best fellowship and strengthen them.
They should also work closely with the ward mission leader to coordinate missionary, retention, and activation efforts with ward missionaries and full-time missionaries.
Ward Mission Leader
Under the direction of the bishop, the ward mission leader:
Sets an example in sharing the gospel with others, including new converts and returning members.
Coordinates the work of the ward missionaries and full-time missionaries with priesthood leaders, auxiliary leaders, and members.
Uses the Progress Record, the Action and Interview List, and the New and Returning Member Progress form to review the progress of people the missionaries are teaching in ward council meetings.
These reports are created using Leader and Clerk Resources online.
They are used to track the progress of new converts and other members.
Conducts weekly missionary coordination meetings.
Organizes convert baptismal services in the ward in cooperation with the full-time missionaries.
A member of the bishopric or the ward mission leader usually conducts these services.
The ward mission leader also serves on the ward council and attends stake priesthood leadership meetings.
Ward Missionaries
Qualified brothers and sisters are called to serve as ward missionaries.
They are supervised by the ward mission leader.
Ward missionaries find, fellowship, and teach people.
They also instruct and fellowship new converts and returning members.
A ward missionary holding the Melchizedek Priesthood may be called to serve as an assistant ward mission leader.
Missionary Coordination
Ward missionary work is normally coordinated in ward council meetings through use of the Progress Record.
The missionary objective of these meetings is to report, plan, and coordinate assignments to find, teach, fellowship, and activate as outlined in the following paragraphs.
Finding People to Teach.
The ward council discusses plans for preparing specific people to be taught by the full-time missionaries.
Members of the ward council discuss the progress of specific ward members in preparing individuals and families for the missionary lessons.
Teaching and Baptizing.
The ward council reviews the Progress Record each week, which describes the progress of each person being taught by the full-time missionaries.
Members of the ward council also coordinate plans for teaching in members’ homes, fellowshipping those being taught, and ensuring member participation at baptismal services.
Fellowshipping and Teaching New Members.
The ward council reviews the New and Returning Member Progress form to monitor the progress of each new member.
Members of the ward council also discuss how to fellowship new members.
As requested by the bishop, they recommend potential callings for new converts.
Fellowshipping and Teaching Returning Members.
The ward council coordinates activation efforts of the elders quorum and the full-time missionaries.
Members of the ward council also plan how to fellowship returning members, especially by inviting them to Church meetings and activities.
Additional Coordination with the Ward Mission Leader
Missionary work in the ward is normally coordinated in ward council meetings.
If additional coordination is necessary, the ward mission leader may hold missionary coordination meetings with the full-time missionaries.
Others who may be invited to attend this meeting include ward missionaries, a counselor from the elders quorum presidency, and a counselor from the Relief Society presidency.
Those attending the meeting may review and report on assignments and goals from the previous meeting and discuss plans for the coming week.
As needed, they may also coordinate the assignments of ward missionaries to work with full-time missionaries and discuss how to make the combined efforts of ward missionaries and full-time missionaries more effective.
Ward Mission Plan
Bishops of many wards have found that developing a ward mission plan promotes ward missionary work.
Such a plan may include goals, initiatives, and activities to help ward members invite people to hear the gospel.
Individuals and families also benefit from developing such a plan to guide their missionary efforts.
Members should use every honorable means to find people who are willing to listen to the message of the Restoration.
They should emphasize finding fathers, mothers, and children who will come into the Church as families.
Following are some suggestions for bishops to consider in developing a mission plan.
Pray that the Lord will prepare the hearts of specific people to hear the gospel.
Pray also to be sensitive to those whom He is preparing (see
Alma 6:6
). “It will be a great day,” taught President Gordon B.
Hinckley, “when our people not only pray for the missionaries throughout the world, but ask the Lord to help them to assist the missionaries who are laboring in their own ward” (“Missionary Service,”
First Worldwide Leadership Training Meeting,
Jan.
2003, 19).
Be aware of opportunities to reach out to others.
Be neighborly and reach out in love to all people.
Ask friends and neighbors to serve alongside members in such things as providing community service, providing meals to those in need, teaching workshops in weekday Relief Society meetings, helping with ward activities, helping people move, assisting with youth activities, and helping with family history or welfare projects.
Invite nonmember relatives, friends, and neighbors to baptisms, confirmations, and priesthood ordinations.
Invite nonmembers to assist in special events, such as a breakfast on a national holiday.
Make ward meetings, activities, devotionals, and open houses enjoyable and uplifting so that members feel eager to invite acquaintances to attend.
Invite people to home evenings.
Visit people who are experiencing changes in their lives, such as marriages, births, or deaths.
Visit and help people who are moving into the neighborhood.
Share information about the community, the neighborhood, and the Church.
Take every opportunity to talk about the gospel.
Discuss such topics as the Savior, the Book of Mormon, the Bible, the purpose of life, the family, and family history.
Encourage youth to befriend other youth and invite them to Church meetings and activities.
Work with part-member families.
Plan spiritually uplifting sacrament meetings.
Activity: Companion Study
With your companion, read and discuss “
Church Organization
” under Gospel Topics on the Church’s website.
Share with your companion and write in your study journal what you learned.
Discuss how your insights will influence the way you approach your work with Church leaders.
The Commitment to Stay Active in the Church
Missionary work has its greatest effect as people make and keep the commitment to stay active in the Church all the days of their lives.
It is not enough for people to simply come into the Church.
They must come to stay.
All of your teaching and invitations must be directed toward this end.
In order to receive all the blessings that our Heavenly Father has in store for them, members must continue to live the gospel and be active in the Church.
Nephi taught: “And now, my beloved brethren, after ye have gotten into this strait and narrow path, I would ask if all is done?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay; … ye must press forward with a steadfastness in Christ … and endure to the end, behold, thus saith the Father: Ye shall have eternal life” (
2 Nephi 31:19–20
).
Give your best efforts to help people qualify for “eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God” (
Doctrine and Covenants 14:7
).
Remember This
Build strong relationships with the bishop and members of the ward council.
Participate in appropriate ways during ward council meetings.
Be of service to the ward council.
When members of the council ask for your help:
Be willing to fellowship converts and returning members, assist them in their callings and service opportunities, and reteach the missionary lessons.
Teach new converts all the lessons following baptism.
Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Using your daily planner or digital tools, make plans to talk to new converts and recently returned members about changing their lives and attending church.
What has helped them most?
In your study journal, write your thoughts about their experiences.
What have you learned that will help you in working with those you are currently teaching?
Study
2 Nephi 31:18–20
;
Alma 26:1–7
and
32:32–43
; and
Moroni 6
.
Write what you learn from these verses about strengthening new converts.
Companion Study
During ward council meeting, ask the bishop if there are any returning members in your area he would like you to visit this week.
As you visit these people, seek to build their faith in Jesus Christ.
Ask them for referrals.
Study
1 Corinthians 3:2
;
Hebrews 5:12
; and
Doctrine and Covenants 19:22
.
What is the milk that is referred to?
What is the meat?
Compare your answers with the doctrine in the chapter “
What Do I Study and Teach?
” Why must you provide the milk and the meat in the right sequence and in the right amount?
How do you do that?
Read the following quotation, in which President Joseph F.
Smith describes his feelings at the time of his baptism:
“The feeling that came upon me was that of pure peace, of love and of light.
I felt in my soul that if I had sinned—and surely I was not without sin—that it had been forgiven me; that I was indeed cleansed from sin; my heart was touched, and I felt that I would not injure the smallest insect beneath my feet.
I felt as if I wanted to do good everywhere to everybody and to everything.
I felt a newness of life, a newness of desire to do that which was right.
There was not one particle of desire for evil left in my soul. … This was the influence that came upon me, and I know that it was from God, and was and ever has been a living witness to me of my acceptance of the Lord” (
Gospel Doctrine,
5th ed. [1939], 96).
Now read what President Smith said about his feelings long after his baptism:
“Oh!
that I could have kept that same spirit and that same earnest desire in my heart every moment of my life from [the day of my baptism] to this.
Yet many of us who have received that witness, that new birth, that change of heart, while we may have erred in judgment or have made many mistakes, and often perhaps come short of the true standard in our lives, we have repented of the evil, and we have sought from time to time forgiveness at the hand of the Lord; so that until this day the same desire and purpose which pervaded our souls when we were baptized and received a remission of our sins, still holds possession of our hearts, and is still the ruling sentiment and passion of our souls” (
Gospel Doctrine,
96).
What did you personally learn from President Smith about your own testimony and commitment to live the gospel?
What did you learn about the difficulties that new converts, even future prophets, face following baptism?
Thinking of recent converts and returning members, what can you do to help them retain or regain the “desire and purpose” they once had?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite a bishop to talk about the challenges of working with returning members and new converts.
Ask him to emphasize how missionaries can help with these challenges.
Discuss the parables of the lost sheep, the lost coin, and the prodigal son (see
Luke 15
).
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Work with local priesthood leaders to encourage them to help new converts:
Be ordained to the priesthood.
Be assigned ministering brothers and ministering sisters, as needed.
Prepare the name of an ancestor to take to the temple and to perform baptisms for the dead.
Receive all five missionary lessons with ministering brothers, ministering sisters, or other members present.
Teach local leaders how to use missionaries in ward council.
Teach local leaders the purpose and uses of the Progress Record.
Occasionally ask missionaries to show you a copy of their Progress Record.
Occasionally follow up with recent converts to find out how they are doing and how missionaries and members can be of help.
Invite stake or ward leaders to speak to your missionaries to explain how the missionaries can be of greatest help.
Invite recent converts to speak to missionaries and relate their experiences as new members of the Church.
Occasionally ask members who are converts to share their conversion experience in a zone conference.
Notes
Remember This …
Your purpose is to bring souls to Christ.
Prepare people to meet the qualifications for baptism in
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37
and the baptismal interview questions.
Pray often for yourself and for others.
Rely on the Spirit to show you where to go, what to do, and what to say.
Be exactly obedient.
Study the language of your mission each day.
Plan every day and focus on people and the key indicators for conversion.
Work effectively all day, every day.
Ask for referrals from
everyone
!
Teach when you find; find when you teach.
Read the Book of Mormon with those you teach.
Teach people that an important way to know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God is to read and pray about the Book of Mormon.
Contact the people you are teaching daily.
Bear testimony frequently.
Have a member at every lesson possible.
Always set specific dates and times for the next lesson.
Invite all the people you are teaching to baptismal services.
After each lesson, provide people with something to read and ponder in preparation for the next meeting.
Build relationships with members by serving them and working with the leadership of the ward.
Help ward leaders with retention and activation activities.
Help everyone you teach make commitments that will bring about repentance and will strengthen their faith in the Savior.
Love the Lord and serve Him the very best you can.
