Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Review the language resources on Missionary Portal.
Identify something you haven’t tried, and set a goal to try it for the next few days.
At your next district council, ask an experienced missionary with good language ability what he or she has done to learn the language.
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Practice teaching each other the missionary lessons in your mission language.
At first, new missionaries might teach very simply, share simple testimony, and recite memorized scriptures.
As their confidence and ability increase, they will be able to participate more fully in teaching.
Review the ideas in this chapter and the language resources on Missionary Portal.
Discuss which suggestions you could use in companion study during the next week.
Ask your companion to listen to your pronunciation and help you improve.
Ask him or her to take note of situations when you are not understood.
Make a list of words, phrases, or grammar that would help.
Explain and practice how to use what is on the list in upcoming activities.
Practice actively listening.
Plan a time during the day to listen actively to identify vocabulary and patterns you have learned.
When you hear a phrase expressed differently from the way you would say it, write it down and practice it.
Make a list of things people might say that day.
Plan and practice ways you could respond.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite native speakers to attend one of these meetings.
Arrange for the missionaries to teach them in small groups.
Ask the native speakers to take notes and give feedback on the missionaries’ language ability.
Assign one or two missionaries ahead of time to tell about successes they have had in studying the language.
Assign an experienced missionary to briefly present some part of the language that is usually difficult for missionaries.
Have him or her present examples of good language use, and have the missionaries practice them.
Have missionaries who are native to the culture share their insights.
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
Emphasize the importance of consistently studying the language each day.
Encourage missionaries to use the mission language as much as possible.
Provide elements of a mission language study plan in a systematic study schedule.
Review this in district council meetings.
Look for opportunities to talk with missionaries in the language they are learning.
Periodically interview them in this language.
Ask local leaders and members for ideas on how missionaries can improve their language ability.
Give instruction in zone conference or mission leadership council on the most common mistakes made by missionaries who are learning your mission language.
Teach missionaries about spiritual gifts.
Observe missionaries when they teach in the mission language.
