Addressing the Importance of the Family
The Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ blesses families and individuals.
By living the principles of the restored gospel, families and individuals are strengthened and can experience peace, joy, and a sense of belonging and identity.
Addressing the importance of the family with those you meet each day will help you find people to teach.
Most people have a natural interest in families.
In many finding situations, you can quickly relate what most people know about the family to the message of the Restoration.
When finding, you might say something like the following:
There is nothing more important to us than our families.
Our family ties us to one another, gives us a name, and helps us feel needed and loved.
From our families we inherited personality traits, attributes, and physical characteristics, giving us some unique identity.
Having a strong, happy family is the highest priority for many people throughout the world.
Accomplishing this goal is often difficult.
Raising children and having a strong marriage in today’s world can almost seem impossible at times with the evils that are all around us.
You could then make a transition to the message of the Restoration:
The feelings of love and concern that we have for our families are eternal and rooted deep within our souls.
They are centered in our relationship with God.
You have been part of God’s family since before you were born.
He is our Father.
Because He is our Father, we are brothers and sisters.
Heavenly Father wants us to return to live with Him as part of His family.
Families here on earth are a tie to God’s family.
Families can live together after this life.
We know this because after centuries of being lost, true doctrine and ordinances such as baptism by immersion have been restored to the earth by our loving Heavenly Father through a living prophet.
These restored truths not only help us understand our place in God’s family, but they are the greatest hope we have for a strong, happy family in this life.
May we teach you more about …
The same thing can be done with other topics, such as happiness, adversity, the purpose of life, or death.
Whatever your finding approach, remember to connect it quickly to our unique message to the world.
