Member, Missionary, and Church Headquarters Referrals
Referrals are another important resource in finding those being prepared for the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
Referrals may come from members, other missionaries, or Church headquarters.
The Church actively reaches out in many ways to God’s children through efforts such as media advertising, visitors’ centers, historic sites, welfare and humanitarian aid, and the internet.
When you receive a referral, contact the member or missionaries who sent it to you and ask them how you can help the person.
You may invite the member or missionaries (with their mission president’s approval) to participate in teaching the person using available technology.
When you meet someone who is interested in learning more but lives outside your assigned area, introduce the person to the gospel and help him or her prepare to meet members and missionaries where he or she lives.
After you send a referral, work with the missionaries who received the referral to help them begin teaching.
With your mission president’s approval, you may continue to support and fellowship people you refer to help them receive the gospel.
You can also help members share the gospel with people they know.
As members prepare and invite their friends to meet with missionaries, show members how to send a referral, contact the missionaries, and participate in teaching to help ensure the person they refer has a good experience.
Most people who respond to Church media campaigns have agreed to have Church representatives visit and share more about the gospel.
You should view these teaching opportunities as a sacred responsibility.
In some cases, referrals lead you to others whom God is preparing.
If the people you contact are not interested, ask them if they know someone who might be.
Talk with other members of the household and their neighbors as well.
Ask each person who else might be interested in your message.
Perhaps you have been led to this person because someone else in the home or neighborhood is ready for the gospel.
When working with referrals, remember to:
Contact the referring member or missionaries to learn more about how to best help the person.
The referring member or missionaries (with their mission president’s approval) may want to counsel with you or assist you through technology with the teaching.
Attempt to promptly make an initial contact with the referred individual through a call, text, email, or other communication.
Arrange a visit as soon as possible.
If the person does not respond, leave a message and try again later.
Arrange a time to meet in person or by means of technology.
Deliver any requested items.
Identify the individual’s challenges, needs, and interests, and determine how the gospel can help meet those needs.
Share gospel truths from the missionary lessons.
Extend invitations that will build the person’s faith in Christ.
Ask for referrals.
Arrange for a return visit.
If an appointment to meet with someone falls through, work in the surrounding area.
Don’t make reference to the appointment or the name of the referred person when talking to neighbors in the area.
Activity: Companion Study
Locate all the referrals received in your area within the last month.
Identify any people who have not been contacted, and visit them.
Decide which of those who have previously been contacted should be visited again.
Activity: Companion Study
Locate all the referrals received in your area within the last month.
Identify any people who have not been contacted, and visit them.
Decide which of those who have previously been contacted should be visited again.
