Unite with Members
“Inviting all to receive the gospel is part of the work of salvation and exaltation” ( General Handbook , 23.0 ).
Work with members of the Church to find people to teach.
When members refer someone to you and then participate in the lessons, people are more likely to be baptized and remain active in the Church.
Build Strong Relationships with Local Leaders
Build strong relationships with the bishopric and other ward leaders.
The ward mission leader (if one is called) and the elders quorum and Relief Society presidencies are your primary points of contact.
Seek their guidance, and support them in the weekly coordination meetings (see chapter 13 ).
During weekly coordination meetings, work with the priests quorum assistant and Young Women class president for the oldest class.
These youth have an important role in sharing the gospel.
Help them encourage quorum and class members to share the gospel.
One way is for youth to invite friends to activities.
Regularly ask yourself, “Am I a blessing to local leaders?” Develop an attitude of “How can I help?” Like Ammon in the Book of Mormon, approach local leaders with an attitude of service (see Alma 17:23–25 ).
To mission leaders, President Russell M.
Nelson taught: “I hope that you will learn to love the local leaders and members.
Lift them and inspire them.
Your ability to link the enthusiasm of the missionaries with the stability and loving efforts of the members cannot be overemphasized.
Your success will be multiplied exponentially” (“Hopes of My Heart,” seminar for new mission leaders, June 23, 2019).
Support Members in Their Efforts to Share the Gospel
There are many ways to support and encourage members in sharing the gospel.
Help them reflect on how the gospel has blessed their lives.
Encourage them to “hold up [their] light that it may shine unto the world” ( 3 Nephi 18:24 ).
Help members apply the principles of love, share, and invite.
Give examples of normal and natural ways they can apply these principles.
Love.
One way to show love for God is by loving and serving His children.
Encourage members to reach out with love to family members, friends, neighbors, and others.
Any effort to express love is an important way to keep covenants they have made with God (see Mosiah 18:9–10 ).
Share.
Because of their love for God and His children, members naturally want to share the blessings He has given them (see John 13:34–35 ).
Encourage members to tell others about how the gospel blesses their lives.
Encourage them to speak of the Savior and His influence.
Help them feel the joy of sharing their love, time, and life events.
Help them learn how to share in normal and natural ways—simply as part of what they are already doing in their lives.
“We all share things with others.
We do it often.
We share what movies and food we like, funny things we see, places we visit, art we appreciate, quotes we’re inspired by.
“How might we simply add to the list of things we already share what we love about the gospel of Jesus Christ?
… By sharing our positive experiences in the gospel with others, we take part in fulfilling the Savior’s great commission” (Gary E.
Stevenson, “ Love, Share, Invite ,” Liahona , May 2022, 86).
Invite.
The Savior invites all to receive His gospel and prepare for eternal life (see Alma 5:33–34 ).
As with sharing, inviting is often a matter of simply including family, friends, and neighbors in what members are already doing.
Encourage members to pray about inviting people in the following ways:
Come and see.
Invite people to “come and see” the blessings they can receive through Jesus Christ, His gospel, and His Church.
Come and serve.
Invite people to “come and serve” others in need.
Come and belong.
Invite people to “come and belong” as members of the restored Church of Jesus Christ.
Elder Gary E.
Stevenson said: “There are hundreds of invitations we can extend to others.
We can invite others to ‘come and see’ a sacrament service, a ward activity, an online video that explains the gospel of Jesus Christ.
‘Come and see’ can be an invitation to read the Book of Mormon or visit a new temple during its open house prior to its dedication.
Sometimes the invitation is something we extend inward—an invitation to ourselves, giving us awareness and vision of opportunities surrounding us to act upon” (“ Love, Share, Invite ,” 86).
Be sure to help youth love, share, and invite.
Youth are especially gifted at loving their friends, sharing what is in their heart, and inviting them to activities.
Help members understand that any effort to live the principles of love, share, and invite is positive, whether or not a person meets with the missionaries or joins the Church.
Help members draw on their strengths in sharing the gospel.
Some are great at finding people to teach, and some are great teachers.
Some have a natural ability to connect with friends, while others love to pray for their friends.
Help them see that there are ways for everyone to participate.
When you visit members, do so with a purpose.
Show that you are anxiously engaged in the work of finding and teaching.
Respect their time and schedule.
Some members might welcome having you teach a message from one of the lessons.
The truths of the gospel are life changing.
Strengthening members’ understanding of the gospel will increase their trust in you and build their excitement to share it.
Help them recognize the Spirit and act on promptings.
Seek to find people to teach through part-member families, prospective elders, returning members, and new members.
They will likely have many family members and friends of other faiths.
In all you do with members, follow the Spirit and seek to build their faith in the Savior, Jesus Christ.
For more ideas and resources on how you can support members in sharing the gospel, see:
share.ChurchofJesusChrist.org .
“ Sharing the Gospel ” in the Gospel Library.
Preach My Gospel , chapter 13 .
General Handbook , chapter 23 .
Promise Blessings for Sharing the Gospel
Help members understand the remarkable blessings of sharing the gospel.
These include:
Joy and peace (see Doctrine and Covenants 18:10–16 ; Alma 26:11, 13, 35 ; Alma 36:24–28 ).
Sustaining power from God (see Mosiah 18:8–13 ; John 15:4–5 ).
Protection from temptation (see 3 Nephi 18:24–25 ).
Forgiveness of sins (see Doctrine and Covenants 62:3 ).
Companion Study
Review your last weekly coordination meeting.
How could you have made it more effective?
Review requests from ward leaders and plan how and when to respond.
Plan how you will coordinate your missionary efforts in the next coordination meeting.
Learn the names of ward leaders (men and women).
Plan what you will do during the next month to develop stronger relationships with them and support them in their missionary efforts.
Companion Study
Review your last weekly coordination meeting.
How could you have made it more effective?
Review requests from ward leaders and plan how and when to respond.
Plan how you will coordinate your missionary efforts in the next coordination meeting.
Learn the names of ward leaders (men and women).
Plan what you will do during the next month to develop stronger relationships with them and support them in their missionary efforts.
