Find People Where They Are
Finding people where they are begins with trying to see them as God does.
Assume that you may have been led to talk with this person, or he or she may have been led to you.
Seek to understand people’s spiritual needs and desires.
Find out what is most important to them, especially in their relationships with family and God.
You might ask questions like those below—and then sincerely listen:
What do you value most?
What gives you joy?
What do you want for your own future and for those you love?
What challenges do you face in reaching your hopes and dreams?
What aspects of your life do you want to improve?
Seek inspiration as you reflect on what you learn about the person’s hopes and desires.
What gospel truths naturally connect with what he or she wants?
Consider your approach from that person’s perspective.
What does he or she know about you?
What can you offer that might be helpful?
Does the person feel that an interaction with you will be worthwhile?
Consider different reasons people might want to get to know you, other members, or the Church.
Some examples of what you can provide are outlined below.
Give Experiences or Information They Would Value
Use Church resources and your own talents and strengths to connect with someone’s interests.
Seek Heavenly Father’s help in offering information or experiences the person will value.
Be open to inspiration and be creative as you think about different kinds of experiences or information you can provide.
Some ideas are listed below.
Share a link to a Church resource that provides information about something that would interest them.
Host an event like a devotional (in person or streaming live).
Offer something at a local gathering or event (for example, create free family history trees at a local market).
Offer to teach a class.
Organize a scripture study class, or offer to read the Bible and other scriptures with them.
Teach English as a second language.
Publicize local Church activities like a holiday party or self-reliance classes.
Use flyers or social media.
Invite them to a baptismal service.
Offer to give them a tour of the local meetinghouse.
One of the most valuable experiences you can help people have is attending a Church service.
Invite them and explain what it will be like.
Tell them how attending a sacrament meeting will bless their lives.
Facilitate Genuine Relationships
Many people would like to meet others in their community or get to know them better.
Some people are lonely.
Some ideas for helping facilitate genuine relationships are listed below.
Visit people who have recently moved into the area to welcome them.
Introduce people in the community to members who have shared interests.
Invite people to ward meetings, activities, and open houses.
Offer to help them connect with the ward temple and family history leader, who can help them learn more about their deceased family members.
Offer to teach people how to hold home evening or read the scriptures as a family.
(See General Handbook , 2.2.4 , for helpful principles that can be adapted to people’s circumstances.)
Invite people of the appropriate age to attend seminary, attend institute, or participate in BYU–Pathway Worldwide.
There are many honorable ways to find those who are being prepared for the restored gospel.
Do what you can to be placed in the path of those who are being prepared.
Companion Study
Identify some ideas in this section that you have not tried.
Make plans to try some of the ideas during the next week.
Companion Study
Identify some ideas in this section that you have not tried.
Make plans to try some of the ideas during the next week.
