Contact People Referred to You
People referred to you may be ready to receive the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Referrals may come from members of the Church, other missionaries, Church headquarters, and local social media efforts.
Reach Out Promptly
When a person is referred to you through headquarters or local social media, review the information in the Preach My Gospel app about their interests.
Attempt to contact them as soon as possible.
Use the following guidelines when working with people referred to you:
If the person was referred by a member or by other missionaries, contact the person who sent the referral to learn more.
If missionaries referred the person, they may teach with you virtually if their mission leader approves.
Members may join you in person or virtually to participate in teaching.
Promptly attempt to contact the person through a visit, call, text, email, or other form of communication.
If the person does not respond, try to contact him or her at a different time of day.
If your initial contact was by call, text, or email, arrange a time to meet in person or through technology.
As a companionship, review the person’s request and identify his or her needs and interests.
Determine how the gospel can help meet those needs.
When you meet, bring any requested items, such as the Book of Mormon.
Share gospel truths from the missionary lessons that meet the person’s interests or needs.
Sometimes people who are referred can lead you to others whom God is preparing.
If the people you contact are not interested, ask if they know others who might be interested or who need hope in their lives.
Perhaps you have been led to this person because someone else in the home or neighborhood is ready for the gospel.
If an appointment with someone falls through, consider how you can do other missionary work in the area.
The Preach My Gospel app can help you find people nearby who were previously contacted or taught.
Refer People to Missionaries in Another Area
When you meet people who are interested in learning more about the gospel but live outside your assigned area, introduce them to the gospel.
Then help them prepare to meet missionaries and members where they live.
With your mission president’s approval, you may continue to support these people to help them receive the gospel (see Missionary Standards , 7.5.4 ).
Companion Study
Review all the people who have been referred in your area within the last month.
Identify any people you have been unable to contact, and try to contact them again.
Decide which of those who have been contacted should be visited again.
Update these records in the Preach My Gospel app.
Companion Study
Review all the people who have been referred in your area within the last month.
Identify any people you have been unable to contact, and try to contact them again.
Decide which of those who have been contacted should be visited again.
Update these records in the Preach My Gospel app.
