Teach When You Find
As you meet people and identify their interests and needs, develop the habit of beginning to teach and share your testimony.
You will find more people to teach as you testify of the Savior and His gospel and allow them to feel the power of the Holy Ghost.
Consider teaching on topics such as happiness, adversity, the purpose of life, or death.
Whatever your initial approach, refer quickly and simply to the Savior, His gospel, and His call to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
This is our unique message to the world.
The following sections provide examples of how you might briefly teach about the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the importance of the family.
Teach and Testify about the Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
Testify of Jesus Christ and teach brief summaries of restored truth.
For example, you can testify of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ in just two or three sentences:
After centuries of being lost, truths have been restored by a loving God through a living prophet.
We have evidence of this that you can hold in your hands, read, and ponder in your heart.
We invite you to read and pray to learn its truth for yourself.
Will you allow us to …
If you have a little more time, you might say more:
Our message is simple.
God is our Father.
We are His children.
We are part of His family.
He knows us personally and loves us.
He wants us to experience joy.
From the beginning of the world, He has followed a pattern of reaching out in love to reveal the gospel of Jesus Christ so His children can know how to return to Him.
He has revealed the gospel to prophets such as Adam, Noah, Abraham, and Moses.
But many people repeatedly chose to reject the gospel and the prophets who taught it.
Two thousand years ago, Jesus Christ Himself taught His gospel.
People even rejected Jesus.
After the deaths of Jesus’s Apostles, people distorted true doctrine, such as about the Godhead.
They also changed ordinances, such as baptism.
Our invitation to you is to add to the truths you already treasure.
Consider the evidence that our Heavenly Father has again reached out to His children in love and revealed the true doctrine and ordinances to a prophet.
This prophet’s name is Joseph Smith.
The evidence of this truth is found in a book—the Book of Mormon.
You can hold it in your hands, read it, and ponder its truth in your mind and heart.
We invite you to attend church to learn more.
Teach and Testify about the Importance of the Family
Addressing the importance of the family will help you find people to teach, whether they have a Christian background or a non-Christian one.
You can quickly relate what most people know about the family to Heavenly Father’s plan of salvation.
You might say something like this:
Our family can be one of the most important influences in our lives.
Our family ties us to one another and can help us feel needed and loved.
Having a strong, happy family is the highest priority for many people.
Having a strong marriage and raising children in today’s world can be very challenging.
You could then make a transition to the message of the Restoration:
You have been part of God’s family since before you were born.
He is our Father.
Heavenly Father wants us to return to live with Him.
You are His child, and He loves you.
He has a plan to help you return to Him.
These truths and others have been restored to the earth by our loving Heavenly Father through a living prophet.
These truths help us understand our place in God’s family.
May we teach you more about these truths?
Will you attend church so you can learn more?
Companion Study
Prepare a one-minute message based on one of the lessons in chapter 3 .
Practice sharing it with each other.
Think of ways you might share this message in a finding situation.
Plan to share it in an appropriate situation to invite others to learn more about Jesus Christ.
Companion Study
Prepare a one-minute message based on one of the lessons in chapter 3 .
Practice sharing it with each other.
Think of ways you might share this message in a finding situation.
Plan to share it in an appropriate situation to invite others to learn more about Jesus Christ.
