Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Read John 15:12 , John 21:15–17 , 1 Thessalonians 2 , and Mosiah 18:8–10 .
How well are you fulfilling your responsibility to love and serve others?
How can you improve?
Write your response in your study journal.
Read 3 Nephi 18:31–32 , Alma 24:7–8 , and Alma 32:41 .
What do these verses teach about working with people who were taught previously?
Record what you learn in your study journal.
Teach it to your companion.
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Make plans to meet with new members in your area.
If needed, use the Preach My Gospel app to identify them.
Ask questions like these:
How were you prepared for the gospel?
When and how did you first come in contact with the Church?
What prompted you to meet with missionaries?
How can we support your continued progress?
From these meetings, what did you learn about finding people who progress toward baptism?
Make plans to apply what you learn this week.
Review each of the following topics.
Using the lessons in chapter 3 , prepare a simple finding approach.
Practice teaching in a finding setting.
Feeling a need for more direction and purpose in life
Wanting to feel closer to God
Needing help with important decisions
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Read and discuss the “ Expand Your Vision of Planning to Find ” section.
Have each companionship complete the evaluation.
Discuss how these ideas have helped missionaries find people to teach.
List other ideas for finding people to teach.
Invite the missionaries to demonstrate their ideas.
Invite the missionaries to set personal goals for improving their finding efforts.
Create a list of several finding opportunities.
Assign each missionary one of the opportunities.
Give each missionary five minutes to prepare how he or she would teach part of a lesson in the assigned situation.
Emphasize the need to keep the length of the message appropriate for the setting.
Invite several missionaries to teach the lesson they planned in their assigned situation.
Invite the missionaries to practice sharing a one-minute gospel message with each other.
You may want to set up a variety of finding settings, such as teaching in a member’s home, teaching on a doorstep, teaching on a sidewalk, or contacting a referral.
Have the missionaries practice teaching in each of these settings.
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
Set an example of member-missionary work in your family.
Share your experiences with the missionaries and members.
Counsel with local priesthood and organization leaders about the best ways for missionaries to find people to teach in your mission.
Organize missionary devotionals at which you can speak to the people being taught in your mission.
Coordinate with local priesthood leaders so members can bring their friends.
Invite new members to share their testimonies and tell their conversion stories before you speak.
Occasionally go with missionaries to help them find people to teach.
