Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Prepare a five-minute talk on one of the attributes discussed in this chapter.
Using the Topical Guide or Guide to the Scriptures, look for ways the Savior has exemplified the attributes described in this chapter.
Record what you learn in your study journal.
Periodically complete the “Attribute Activity” at the end of this chapter.
Identify an attribute in this chapter.
Ask yourself:
How can I develop this attribute?
What must change in my heart, mind, and actions to develop this attribute?
How will keeping covenants help me develop this attribute?
How will developing this attribute help me qualify for the Holy Spirit and become a more powerful minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ?
Find examples of Christlike attributes in the lives of men and women in the scriptures.
Record your impressions in your study journal.
Companion Study
Study references to Christlike attributes in Gospel Library or other approved resources.
Discuss relationships among different attributes.
For example:
How does faith relate to diligence?
In what ways are humility and love related?
How does knowledge strengthen patience?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Several days before district council, zone conference, or mission leadership council, ask each missionary to select one of the attributes in this chapter or in the scriptures and prepare a five-minute talk on that attribute, including scriptures that have helped him or her.
Allow time in the meeting for a few missionaries to share their talks.
Divide the missionaries into three groups, and give them the following assignment:
Group 1: Read 1 Nephi 17:7–16 and answer the following questions:
How did Nephi exercise his faith?
What did Nephi do that was Christlike?
What promises did the Lord make to Nephi if he would be faithful and keep the commandments?
How does this account apply to missionary work?
Group 2: Read Jacob 7:1–15 and answer the following questions:
Why was Jacob’s faith strong enough to resist Sherem’s attack?
How did Jacob exercise faith when he talked with Sherem?
How were Jacob’s actions Christlike?
What can we do to develop faith like Jacob’s?
Group 3: Read Joseph Smith—History 1:8–18 , and answer the following questions:
In what ways did Joseph Smith exercise faith in Jesus Christ?
How was his faith tried?
What did he do that was Christlike?
What can we do to follow Joseph Smith’s example?
After the groups finish, bring the missionaries together and ask them to share what they discussed.
Share an experience of when you were blessed or inspired by another person’s faith.
Have missionaries refer to the “Attribute Activity.” Give each missionary a piece of paper on which to write his or her answers.
When they have completed the worksheet, invite them to set personal goals.
Ask a few of the missionaries to share what they learned and felt as they completed the worksheet.
Share your testimony concerning the importance of developing Christlike attributes.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Ask missionaries to read one of the four Gospels in the New Testament or 3 Nephi 11–28 .
Have them underline what the Savior did that they can also do.
Use goal setting and planning to teach missionaries about diligence.
Show how diligence in focusing on people is an expression of love.
During interviews or in conversations, ask missionaries to talk about an attribute they are trying to develop.
In a zone conference or in mission leadership council, invite missionaries to tell about Christlike attributes they admire in their companions.
