Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Make a list of the challenges that a baptismal candidate might encounter.
Why is it important that candidates feel the love and friendship of Church members?
Study Moroni 6 and Doctrine and Covenants 20:68–69 .
What do you learn from these verses about preparing people for baptism and confirmation?
Write what you learn, and share your thoughts with your companion during companion study.
Companion Study
President Henry B.
Eyring explained why high standards are important.
Discuss this counsel with your companion and evaluate how you feel about boldly helping people meet these standards.
“The Lord sets His standards so that He can bless us.
Think about those blessings: He promises those who meet the standards the help of the Holy Ghost.
He promises personal peace.
He promises the chance to receive holy ordinances in His house.
And He promises those who endure in living His standards that they will have eternal life.
… Because we love the people we serve, all of us want to do better in lifting our Heavenly Father’s children to the faithfulness and purity they need to have all the blessings of the Lord.
… You begin by holding up the Lord’s standards clearly and without apology.
And the more the world drifts from them and mocks them, the bolder we must be in doing that” (“Standards of Worthiness,” First Worldwide Leadership Training Meeting, Jan.
2003, 10–11).
Share with your companion what you have learned from this chapter about preparing people for baptism and confirmation.
Review the last baptismal service you attended.
Compare it with the guidelines in the section titled “The Baptismal Service.” What went well?
What could have been improved?
Discuss how you will make sure that the services you plan will be spiritual and uplifting.
Practice how you would prepare a specific person for the baptismal interview.
Review the baptismal interview questions.
Consider how you would handle different situations, such as the following:
The candidate didn’t tell you that he is on probation for a crime previously committed.
The person has not received a strong answer to prayer that Joseph Smith was a prophet.
The candidate smoked a cigarette two days ago.
The candidate isn’t sure whether she has received an answer to her prayers.
The family felt pressure from friends and aren’t sure whether they are ready for baptism.
Review the Baptism and Confirmation Form (Convert).
How can you ensure that the information you provide is correct and complete?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Review the importance of the baptismal interview.
Discuss how missionaries should prepare people for the interview.
Discuss how to use baptismal services and confirmations as finding opportunities.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Work with local priesthood and auxiliary leaders to ensure effective use of the Progress Record.
Teach district leaders, zone leaders, and sister training leaders how to prepare people for the baptismal interview.
Invite mission leaders to train other missionaries to prepare people for the baptismal interview.
Teach district leaders and zone leaders how to conduct baptismal interviews.
Instruct the members of the mission presidency and priesthood leaders how to conduct baptismal interviews for baptismal candidates who have committed serious sins.
When possible, attend baptismal services for new converts.
Take some time to talk with the new converts and learn their conversion experiences.
Share what you learn with your companion and with other missionaries.
