Consider This
How should I teach from the scriptures?
Why should I ask questions when I teach?
What types of questions should I ask?
How can I listen better to those I teach and to the Spirit?
How can I help people resolve their concerns?
How can I help others overcome addictions?
You are called to teach the restored gospel to as many people as will receive you.
Teaching is central to everything you do.
You develop Christlike attributes, study the missionary lessons, improve your ability to speak in your mission language, and rely on the Spirit in order to teach with convincing power.
The Lord stated this very simply as a commandment with a promise:
“Seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men” (
Doctrine and Covenants 11:21
).
“Neither take ye thought beforehand what ye shall say; but treasure up in your minds continually the words of life, and it shall be given you in the very hour that portion that shall be meted unto every man” (
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85
).
The First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve Apostles have stated: “Our purpose is to teach the message of the restored gospel in such a way as to allow the Spirit to direct both the missionaries and those being taught.
It is essential to learn the [missionary lessons] but these should not be taught by rote presentation.
The missionary should feel free to use his own words as prompted by the Spirit.
He should not give a memorized recitation, but speak from the heart in his own terms.
He may depart from the order of the lessons, giving that which he is inspired to do, according to the interest and needs of the
[individual].
Speaking out of his own conviction and in his own words he should bear testimony of the truth of his teachings” (“Statement on Missionary Work,” First Presidency letter, Dec.
11, 2002).
Learn to rely on the Spirit to give you what you should say and do.
By studying, developing, and using the teaching skills in this chapter, you will become a more capable instrument in the hands of the Lord.
The Spirit will draw upon the knowledge and skills you have developed to help you teach more powerfully.
The quality and power of your teaching will help others understand and feel the importance the restored gospel has for them.
Their understanding will be influenced by your personal worthiness.
Their understanding will also be influenced by how well you focus your attention on them and listen and by how well you explain the gospel, use the scriptures, share your testimony, ask questions, and invite them to make and keep commitments.
Follow the Spirit
“The Spirit is the most important single element in this work.
With the Spirit magnifying your call, you can do miracles for the Lord in the mission field.
Without the Spirit, you will never succeed regardless of your talent and ability” (Ezra Taft Benson [address given at the seminar for new mission presidents, June 25, 1986]).
Invite the Spirit
The following suggestions will help you invite the Spirit as you teach:
Pray.
Use the scriptures, especially the Book of Mormon.
Bear testimony.
Share experiences.
Express love for the Lord and for others.
