How to Begin Teaching
The first few moments with people are very important.
They must learn to trust you.
Begin your first visit in a warm, respectful, genuine manner.
Ask a few simple questions to help you understand their religious background and their expectations regarding your visits.
For example, ask, “What role has religion played in your life?” Do not, however, ask personal questions that would make them uncomfortable.
Before you begin, ask all who are present to join with you in the lesson.
Encourage them to turn off the television and remove other distractions so that the Spirit of the Lord will not be hindered.
Explain that you would like to begin and end each lesson in prayer.
Suggest that you will offer the opening prayer.
Pray simply but fervently that the Lord will bless the people you are teaching in every aspect of their lives, and especially that they can feel the truth of what you will teach.
Demonstrate sincere interest and love for them and faith in the converting power of the gospel (see Moroni 7:43–48 ).
As guided by the Spirit, you may express thoughts such as the following:
Because God is our Heavenly Father, we are all brothers and sisters.
We would like to refer to you as brothers and sisters.
Each person we teach has personal challenges and concerns.
No matter what your needs or concerns might be, the Savior and His teachings—the gospel—will help you.
Our message will enable you to improve the quality of your lives.
It will help you deal with the problems and challenges that we all face in life.
Our message, which is centered in Jesus Christ, is of great value and importance.
We all make mistakes in life, and these mistakes create feelings of guilt and shame.
These feelings cannot be relieved without repentance and forgiveness.
They can be fully healed through the Atonement of Christ.
Our message cannot be learned all at once.
Understanding will come over time through prayer, study, experience, and keeping God’s commandments.
We have weaknesses, as everyone does.
We may not speak the language very well or be able to answer every question you have.
But we have been called by a prophet of God to share what we know.
We know that our message is true.
We will be guides so that you can learn the truth of our message for yourselves.
It is your choice to accept and act on the message.
Therefore, you should feel free to ask questions.
As you sincerely seek to understand our message, you may face challenges, but God will help you.
As you accept our message, you will learn how to make covenants, or promises, with God.
You will learn how to make changes to bring your lives in closer harmony with His teachings.
You will want to follow the teachings of Jesus Christ and be baptized by proper authority (see John 3:5 ).
Before teaching the doctrine in a lesson, consider giving a simple overview of what you are going to teach.
Help people see that it will have personal relevance for them.
Many of the people you teach have been prepared by the Lord (see Alma 16:16–17 ).
As you share spiritual experiences together in the first meeting, they will recognize you as servants of the Lord.
Activity: Companion Study
With your companion, practice different ways to begin a lesson using several of these suggestions.
Activity: Companion Study
With your companion, practice different ways to begin a lesson using several of these suggestions.
