Invite Members to Help You Teach
Whenever possible invite members, preferably recent converts, to help you teach.
The ideal situation is to include Church members who formerly belonged to the same church as the people you are teaching.
Show the members a copy of the lesson, and discuss what you want them to teach.
Discuss how to work together.
For example, have the members, as appropriate, share how they were able to learn, accept, and live a particular principle in the lesson.
Have them explain how they made the decision to join the Church.
When members join in teaching, they will have the opportunity to feel the joy of missionary work.
It also provides friendship for those you are teaching.
President Thomas S.
Monson taught:
During the teaching process [people] can be benefitted by the strength of a member couple’s testimony who have in recent years made the step to baptism and membership.
In the Canadian Mission in Ontario and Quebec, where our family lived when I presided over the mission, we found that the majority of the population belonged to perhaps three dominant faiths: Roman Catholic, Anglican, and the United Church of Canada.
In every city of the mission we arranged for a newly baptized family from each of these faiths to be available to the missionaries who were in the process of teaching new [people] so that such a member couple could accompany the missionary team on perhaps the second or third visit.
Can you appreciate, for example, when missionaries [were] working with those from the United Church of Canada, the strength of testimony of [a brother and sister] who had come from the United Church of Canada.
[The husband] would say, “When I joined The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, … I found the truth in its entirety.
You too can make the adjustment.
You too can make the same decision.
In fact, let us pick you up on Sunday morning so that we can sit together in church.
Then you can hear and feel for yourself.
We’ll be right by your side.”
Anthony and Edith Belfiglio became such a fellowshipping couple to those who had Roman Catholic roots.
The result was the same.
It can be done.
And such converts stay converted.
In addition, the couples chosen to fulfill this assignment put their own roots even deeper in the rich soil of the gospel.
… Brother Belfiglio became [an] ordained [patriarch] (missionary training satellite broadcast, Apr.
25, 2003).
Activity: Personal Study
Imagine that you have a first appointment to teach a lesson to a family in a member’s home.
Decide how you would prepare each of the following members to help you teach:
A ward missionary who recently returned from a full-time mission
A priest
A recent convert
The bishop
Activity: Personal Study
Imagine that you have a first appointment to teach a lesson to a family in a member’s home.
Decide how you would prepare each of the following members to help you teach:
A ward missionary who recently returned from a full-time mission
A priest
A recent convert
The bishop
