Help People Resolve Their Concerns
Image Iceberg
Do not copy.
Do not copy.
Some of those you teach will lack the faith to keep commitments, others will face opposition, and others will not always accept everything you share.
They must make their own choices, but you will want to do all you can to answer their questions, help them resolve their concerns, and overcome opposition.
Sometimes people’s concerns are like an iceberg.
Only a small portion is visible above the surface.
These concerns can be complex and difficult to resolve.
For this reason, you need to follow the Spirit and respond in a manner best suited to the situation.
Pray for the gift of discernment and follow your impressions.
Heavenly Father knows the hearts and experiences of all people (the complete iceberg) and will help you know what is best for each person.
When you help others resolve their concerns, first seek to understand their concerns by asking questions and listening.
Rely on the Spirit to help you know how to help them resolve their concerns.
For example, you might use a scripture to address a concern about the need for baptism, or you might share your testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Often concerns are more social than doctrinal.
For example, some people might fear opposition from family members if they join the Church.
Or they might fear rejection from their friends at work.
Whatever the concern may be, they may have past experiences or other influences that are part of the concern that you do not understand.
In many cases, members may be able to help you understand and help with their concerns.
How you approach an individual’s concern will depend on the nature of that concern.
Determine whether the concern has come up because the person does not have a spiritual confirmation of the truth of the Restoration or whether the person does not want to commit to living a true principle.
Understanding the source of the problem in this way helps you know whether to focus on testimony or commitment.
Activity: Companion Study
Choose one invitation you extend when you teach the lessons.
Then identify different concerns which might keep someone from accepting or keeping that commitment.
Discuss and practice how you can best help people as they work to resolve their concerns.
Activity: Companion Study
Choose one invitation you extend when you teach the lessons.
Then identify different concerns which might keep someone from accepting or keeping that commitment.
Discuss and practice how you can best help people as they work to resolve their concerns.
