How to Set Goals and Make Plans to Accomplish Them
Goal setting and planning are acts of faith.
Goals reflect the desires of your heart and your vision of helping yourself and others come to the Savior.
Carefully considered goals and plans will give you clear direction.
They can help you find more people to teach.
They can guide you in helping those you teach strengthen their faith and progress toward conversion.
Make your goal setting and planning an inspired experience.
Pray earnestly, exercise faith, counsel with your companion, and follow the promptings of the Spirit.
As you plan this way, you will feel the Lord working through you to bless others.
“A goal is a destination or an end , while a plan is the route by which you get there.
… Goal setting is essentially beginning with the end in mind.
And planning is devising a way to get to that end” (M.
Russell Ballard, “ Return and Receive ,” Ensign or Liahona , May 2017, 62–63).
Principles for Setting and Accomplishing Goals
The following process will help you set and accomplish goals.
Prayerfully set goals and make plans.
Set goals that are realistic but that will stretch you and require faith.
Avoid setting goals that are too high or too low.
Plan how you will accomplish them.
Record and schedule.
Record your goals and plans in a detailed schedule.
Act on your plans.
Work diligently to accomplish your goals.
Exercise faith in the Lord to help you.
Review and follow up.
Evaluate progress and record your efforts regularly.
Decide what to do differently and how to improve.
Adjust plans as needed.
As you use this goal-setting process, the Lord will magnify your efforts.
You will grow in your capacity as an instrument in His hands.
You will bring about much good in blessing Heavenly Father’s children.
Set Goals and Make Plans in All Areas of the Work
Prayerfully seek the guidance of the Spirit as you apply the goal-setting process to all aspects of missionary work.
Some of these include:
Helping people you are teaching to make progress (see Appendix 1 in this chapter).
Finding new people to teach (see Appendix 2 in this chapter).
Working with members and serving people in the community and ward (see chapters 9 and 13 ).
Working in unity with your companion (see item 6 in “Weekly Planning Session”).
Strengthening your faith in Jesus Christ.
Improving your knowledge and abilities, including language learning (see chapter 7 ).
Set Appropriate Goals
Avoid setting key indicator goals for other missionaries.
However, you may guide and encourage them in applying the principles of goal setting as they set their own goals.
Be careful not to make comparisons with others.
Do not use goal achievement as a quota, for public recognition, or to publicly correct or embarrass anyone.
“We do believe in setting goals.
We live by goals.
… [One] important goal is to bring the gospel to all people.
… Our goal is to achieve eternal life.
That is the greatest goal in the world” (Spencer W.
Kimball, regional representatives’ seminar, Apr.
3, 1975, 6).
