Appendix 1
Apply the Goal-Setting Process in Working with People You Are Teaching
This section provides examples of how you might apply the goal-setting process to help people you are teaching.
1.
Set Goals and Make Plans
Prayerfully consider the spiritual needs of people you are teaching.
Set goals and make plans to help them fulfill these needs.
Use the Preach My Gospel app to review each person’s progress.
Use the key indicators for conversion to identify actions that will help each person take the next step in coming unto Christ.
As you set goals and make plans, ask yourselves questions like these:
What choices is the person making that show a growing faith in Jesus Christ?
What experiences is the person having with the Spirit?
What challenges might he or she be facing?
What more can we learn from this person to help him or her?
What needs to happen to help this person develop faith in Jesus Christ, feel and recognize the Spirit, repent, and be baptized?
How can we prepare for the ward’s weekly coordination meeting to include ward leaders and members in helping this person?
(See chapter 13 .)
What key indicator goals can we set that reflect our faith in the Lord?
2.
Record and Schedule Your Plans
Use the Preach My Gospel app to record and schedule your goals and plans in detail.
This will help you organize the work and identify actions to take each day.
Follow data privacy laws for your area.
As you record and schedule your plans, ask yourselves questions like these:
What specific things can we do today and this week to support this person’s progress?
What doctrine (or lesson) will help this person develop stronger faith in Christ and live the gospel?
How could we teach this doctrine so he or she understands it and is edified by the Holy Ghost?
How and when will we confirm appointments?
What invitations should we extend or follow up on?
How and when will we follow up?
How and when will we help the person attend church, read the scriptures, pray, and keep commitments that lead to making covenants with God?
How can members participate?
What online resources could we share with the person?
What backup plans can we make if something doesn’t go as planned?
3.
Act on Your Plans
Have a prayer in your heart throughout the day as you act on your plans.
The Spirit will help you know where to go, what to do, what to say, and what adjustments to make.
During the day, ask yourselves questions like these:
How can we work with faith, trusting the Lord to help us and magnify our efforts to serve His children?
How can we be creative and courageous when acting on our plans?
How can we adapt our plans according to people’s needs and circumstances?
Plans will not always go as you hope.
Be flexible and use backup plans when needed.
4.
Review Progress and Follow Up
With your companion, review progress toward the goals you have set to teach people and help them progress.
Plan ways to follow up.
Adjust your plans as needed as you strive to reach your goals.
Ask yourselves questions like these:
Are the people we are teaching moving toward making covenants with God?
What challenges do they face?
What are their concerns?
What can we do today to help them and encourage them to act—in person or through technology?
Are they having experiences with feeling the Spirit?
Are they connected to Church leaders and members and building friendships?
Who could participate the next time we teach?
What can we learn from setbacks?
How well did we do in reaching our goals?
Is there anything we should adjust or do differently?
Is it time for less frequent contact?
See chapter 11 for more principles and ideas on how to follow up and help people progress.
