The Area Book and Planning and Reporting Tools
Concerning those who were received into the Church by baptism and confirmation in his day, Moroni taught, “Their names were taken, that they might be remembered and nourished by the good word of God, to keep them in the right way” ( Moroni 6:4 ).
You have been given tools to help you record important information about the people you teach.
These tools also allow you to share the right amount of information with those who need it, as shown in the following illustration.
Before you record or share information in your planning tools, email, social media, notes, or other communications, ask yourself:
How would I feel if someone shared this kind of information about me with others?
Am I following Church policies and data privacy laws for my area if I record or share this information?
With each form and record, follow the Church data retention and privacy policies in your area.
Image information pyramid
These tools and all the information needed to do your work are kept in the area book and the Missionary Daily Planner.
In some missions, the area book and planner are printed documents; in others, they are available in digital tools.
Regardless of which you use, the principles for setting goals and making plans, reporting information, and being accountable are the same.
Area Book
The printed area book is organized as follows:
Teaching Area Map
The teaching area map is a map that outlines the boundaries of a particular teaching area.
Progress Records
Progress Record forms are used to report key indicators and coordinate your efforts with ward and stake leaders in missionary coordination and ward council meetings.
People with a Baptism and Confirmation Date
Teaching Record forms are used to help you record appropriate information about the progress of the people you are teaching.
People Being Taught
Teaching Record forms
People with Interest
People with Interest forms enable you to keep a record of people you have contacted or received referrals from.
Media referrals and other referrals are individuals who have been referred to the missionaries after viewing Church media or other Church materials or who have been referred by Church members.
People Taught Previously
Teaching Record forms
Recent Converts and Returning Members
Teaching Record forms
New and Returning Member Progress forms are forms that record the progress of new Church members and those who are returning to Church activity.
Ward and Mission Information
Ward directory
Ward positions list
Schedule of ward and missionary meetings
List of part-member families
Directory of missionaries in your district or zone
Leadership
The Weekly and Monthly Key Indicator Report is where each companionship will submit the requested information weekly using digital tools or through the Missionary Portal.
Missionary Weekly Report forms allow you to briefly share the progress of those you are teaching and any personal matters you wish to share with your mission president.
He is the only person who will read this letter, so please be open with your comments.
Information about the Area
Information about the apartment
Public transportation
Barber or salon
Laundry
Places to shop
Places to avoid
Contacts
The Area Book (Printed or Digital)
Every teaching area has an area book (printed or a digital tool), which becomes the record of your day-to-day efforts.
Update key information daily, and refer to it weekly during your weekly planning session.
Keep it neat, current, and accurate so that any future missionary can build on the inspired service you have given.
As invited, take your area book to interviews, zone conferences, and mission leadership council, where mission leaders can review it and help you know how to use it most effectively.
The Area Book (Printed or Digital)
Every teaching area has an area book (printed or a digital tool), which becomes the record of your day-to-day efforts.
Update key information daily, and refer to it weekly during your weekly planning session.
Keep it neat, current, and accurate so that any future missionary can build on the inspired service you have given.
As invited, take your area book to interviews, zone conferences, and mission leadership council, where mission leaders can review it and help you know how to use it most effectively.
The Missionary Daily Planner
The Missionary Daily Planner includes the following features:
Five weeks of daily schedules, with a sixth week on an at-a-glance page.
Pages for monthly and weekly goals.
A summary of the planning guidelines; a list of the events that lead to baptism, confirmation, and activity in the Church; lesson plans of the missionary lessons; ideas for finding people to teach; and baptismal interview questions.
A section for information on contacts and for addresses, email addresses, and phone numbers of members and people being taught.
Follow the Church data retention and privacy policies for your mission.
Weekly and Monthly Key Indicator Results page for keeping track of your weekly and monthly results.
Each companionship should access and record this information on the Missionary Portal or through digital tools.
During your weekly planning session, you will write your monthly and weekly goals on the Monthly and Weekly Goals and Plans page of the Missionary Daily Planner.
Use this page of the planner to:
Write your weekly goals for each key indicator and a monthly goal for people baptized and confirmed.
Record actual results for the week.
The results for new people being taught each day are found on the daily schedule.
The total for each week is transferred to the Monthly and Weekly Goals and Plans page.
Set and record goals for what you hope will happen with the people who are most likely to continue to progress toward baptism and confirmation (attend church, read the Book of Mormon, set a baptismal date, and so on).
Write other personal or companion goals.
Each day as you plan and work, you will use the daily schedule.
Use this page to:
Record teaching appointments, meetings, and finding activities.
Plan so that you have meaningful activities for every hour of the day, including backup plans.
List the tasks you need to do (phone calls, people to contact, preparation for lessons, follow-up on commitments, and so on) and what you will study as you prepare for teaching appointments.
Record daily goals and actual results for new people being taught.
