Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
In your study journal, write a one-sentence answer for each of the questions in “Consider This.”
Take a few moments and think about your final day in the mission field.
When that day comes:
What do you want to say you have done as a missionary?
What do you want to have become?
What differences would you want others to notice in you?
In your study journal, write an answer to each of these questions.
Determine what you need to do now to realize these goals.
Write the plans that come to mind.
Companion Study
Using your area book, answer the questions below:
Are all the records current, accurate, and easy to read?
Would a missionary who is new to the area be able to review the area book and know where people are in their spiritual progress and what more needs to be done to help them?
Would a missionary who is new to the area benefit from your efforts to find new people to teach?
Picture yourself presenting your area book to the Lord as you give an accounting of how you have cared for the people in your area.
Would the Lord be pleased with your efforts?
Discuss one person you are teaching.
In your Missionary Daily Planner, locate the page titled “Events That Lead to Baptism, Confirmation, and Activity in the Church.” Select one event, and make a list of everything you need to do in order for this event to happen.
Discuss how you might plan these tasks so that the event can happen at the earliest possible time.
Discuss the following analogy with your companion.
Evaluate how long your “line” is in the water each day.
“None of us should be like the fisherman who thinks he has been fishing all day when in reality he has spent most of his time getting to and from the water, eating lunch, and fussing with his equipment.
Fishing success is related to how long you have your line in the water, not to how long you are away from the apartment.
Some fishermen are away from home for twelve hours and have their line in the water for ten hours.
Other fishermen are away from home for twelve hours and have their line in the water for only two hours.
This last type may wonder why they do not have the same success as others.
“The same principle applies to missionaries, whom the Master called ‘fishers of men.’ A missionary’s line should drop into the fishing water the moment he or she leaves the apartment” (Dallin H.
Oaks, seminar for new mission presidents, June 20, 2000).
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Read one of the following situations to the missionaries.
In small groups, have the missionaries discuss goals and plans that will help the people in these examples progress toward baptism and confirmation.
Have each group share their ideas.
Situation one: You met Larry and Beth when they were giving service at a food kitchen.
You have taught them one lesson, and now they want to know more.
They do not know any members of the Church.
Beth is Christian, and Larry does not claim any particular religion.
They are not married but do live together.
Larry works from 4:00 p.m.
to 12:00 midnight.
Beth works daytime hours.
Situation two: Steve has taken all the lessons and attends church at least twice a month.
He believes that Joseph Smith is a prophet and that the Book of Mormon is true.
His family members are devout Catholics and do not approve of his meetings with the missionaries.
Situation three: Jill is a college student.
She has a friend who is a member of the Church.
Her member friend invited her to meet with you.
You have taught her two lessons.
Her member friend was present at both.
She has not attended church yet and is so busy with her homework that it is difficult for her to read from the Book of Mormon.
Invite missionaries to share experiences where, through setting goals and making plans, they have been able to help people:
Develop greater faith in the Savior.
Repent and make changes that have brought them closer to God.
Receive the covenant of baptism and confirmation.
Come back to the Church and renew their baptismal covenant.
Divide the missionaries into three groups.
Explain that each group will receive an important assignment.
Then give each group one of the following tasks:
Open a new teaching area.
Prepare a zone conference training session on introducing the Book of Mormon to people who are interested in learning more.
Integrate a family you are teaching into the ward.
The family has three children: an 8-year-old girl, a 12-year-old girl, and a 16-year-old boy.
Tell the missionaries they have eight minutes to develop a plan.
One of the missionaries should write the plan down, including the daily activities.
Have each group present its plan.
After each presentation, ask:
What did the missionaries need to know in each situation?
What might the result be if you do not plan meaningful activities or do not plan at all?
After all the presentations, ask:
How are planning and goal setting acts of love?
acts of faith?
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Ask missionaries to bring their area books to zone conference, to mission leadership council, or to interviews.
In addition to reviewing the area books yourself, consider having mission leaders or your companion review the area books.
Occasionally observe missionaries’ weekly or daily planning sessions.
Occasionally conduct interviews in missionary apartments.
As you do so, have your companion or the assistants to the president review missionaries’ area books and daily planners.
Frequently review missionaries’ daily planners.
Occasionally attend a ward council meeting.
