Personal Study, Companion Study, District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Effective study during your mission, including pondering and listening to the promptings of the Spirit, will help you fulfill your purpose as a missionary and strengthen your testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Important study opportunities include personal study, companion study, district council, zone conferences, and mission leadership council (for mission leaders).
Your missionary schedule includes time for personal and companion study most days.
What you learn in personal study will help you in companion study, district council, zone conferences, and mission leadership council, where you can “teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom” ( Doctrine and Covenants 88:77 ).
What you gain from your study opportunities will help you teach with spiritual power.
Personal Study
The purpose of personal study is to strengthen your knowledge and testimony of the restored gospel and help you prepare to meet the needs of those you teach.
In your personal study, focus on the standard works and appropriate and approved resources for your mission.
You can make personal study effective as you:
Read from the Book of Mormon and other scriptures.
Study the doctrine in the missionary lessons.
Study other chapters from Preach My Gospel.
Ponder what you are learning and listen for promptings from the Holy Ghost.
Companion Study
The purpose of companion study is to (1) build unity in your companionship in order to teach by the Spirit and (2) focus on the progress of those you teach.
You can make companion study effective as you:
Share insights with each other from personal study, especially as it relates to the people you are teaching.
Prepare for specific teaching appointments, member visits, finding opportunities, and other activities.
Study material that helps you teach, find, and work more effectively.
When appropriate, practice applying what you are learning in role-play situations.
Discuss the people with whom you are working.
Make plans to apply what you are learning.
Throughout the day, continue to discuss the principles, goals, skills, and plans from companion study.
For New Missionaries: Additional Companion Study
The purpose of additional companion study is to provide more time for new missionaries to build on what was learned at missionary training centers.
As you participate in additional study, you are better able to understand and apply the principles of missionary work found in the scriptures and Preach My Gospel.
Companion study is extended every day for approximately 30 to 60 minutes during your first 12 weeks in the field.
During this additional study, follow the same guidelines listed in the “Companion Study” section above, with a focus on the following chapters or sections from Preach My Gospel.
Based on the needs of people you are teaching, you and your trainer determine together what to study and practice each day, how long to spend on a principle (for example, a few days or a couple of weeks), and when and how to apply the suggested activities in the “Application Ideas” column listed below.
Repeat these activities until you can confidently and effectively lead in every situation listed in the Application Ideas column.
Chapters and Sections (including the information boxes)
Application Ideas
Chapter 1: What Is My Purpose as a Missionary?
Chapter 3, Lesson 3: The Gospel of Jesus Christ
In lessons, the new missionary takes the lead in teaching about Jesus Christ and His gospel and in extending invitations.
Chapter 2: How Do I Study Effectively and Prepare to Teach?
Chapter 3: What Do I Study and Teach?
Chapter 4: How Do I Recognize and Understand the Spirit?
Chapter 10: sections “How to Begin Teaching,” “Adjust Your Teaching to Meet Needs,” “Ask Questions,” and “Listen”
The new missionary and trainer take turns leading in teaching situations, applying principles of how to begin teaching, teaching to meet needs, asking inspired questions, listening, and teaching others how to seek and recognize promptings from the Holy Ghost.
Chapter 5: What Is the Role of the Book of Mormon?
The new missionary takes the lead in teaching others about the Book of Mormon, inviting and helping them to read and pray and reading with them during follow-up visits.
Chapter 11: How Do I Help People Make and Keep Commitments?
The new missionary and trainer take turns leading when inviting people to make and keep commitments, following up, and making contact between visits.
The new missionary takes the lead when inviting and helping people to attend church, including giving a tour of a meetinghouse.
Chapter 8: How Do I Use Time Wisely?
The new missionary and trainer take turns conducting daily and weekly planning sessions, including contacting the ward mission leader and reporting missionary efforts during the missionary coordination meeting or ward council.
Chapter 9: How Do I Find People to Teach?
The new missionary takes the lead in finding situations.
Chapter 13: How Do I Work with Stake and Ward Leaders?
Chapter 10: section “Invite Members to Help You Teach”
The new missionary and trainer take turns planning and working with members to find new people to teach.
Chapter 7: How Can I Better Learn My Mission Language?
The new missionary and trainer have language study at least five days a week.
Apply principles from chapter 7 as you work together to create and follow a language study plan focused on developing the ability to do all the items listed above in the mission language.
You should also complete additional activities listed on the Missionary Portal.
Your trainer may also use video examples located on the Missionary Portal to help demonstrate principles to you.
You and your trainer should share what you are learning and applying in your weekly letter to the mission president.
By the end of the first 12 weeks, you should be able to, if called upon, train another missionary.
District Council
The purpose of district council is to “teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom” ( Doctrine and Covenants 88:77 ).
District council is held each week for 60 to 90 minutes.
The district leader plans and conducts the district council and may invite other missionaries to help teach.
District council may include opportunities to:
Share insights from personal and companion study.
Practice the lessons in various settings.
Explain, demonstrate, and practice principles and skills described in Preach My Gospel.
Discuss the progress and needs of people.
Discuss and address challenges in the district.
Share experiences and testimonies of missionary work.
Share experiences of working with members.
District leaders may use district council to receive reports regarding the efforts of missionaries in the district.
They should not set goals or quotas for other missionaries.
Zone Conferences and Mission Leadership Council
Zone conferences and mission leadership council are held under the direction of the mission president.
