Teach by the Spirit
The gospel of Jesus Christ is “the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth” ( Romans 1:16 ).
For that reason, the message of the Restoration of the gospel needs to be taught by divine power—the power of the Holy Ghost.
It is important that you develop teaching skills.
It is also important that you learn the doctrine and principles you teach.
However, when teaching spiritual truths, you do not rely primarily on your own abilities and knowledge.
Spiritual truths are taught by the power of the Holy Ghost.
The Lord said, “And the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach” ( Doctrine and Covenants 42:14 ; see also Doctrine and Covenants 50:13–14, 17–22 ).
What It Means to Teach by the Spirit
When you teach by the Spirit, you pray to have the power of the Holy Ghost in your teaching.
You also pray that people will receive truths by the Spirit.
People may be persuaded of some truths, but to be converted, they need to have experiences with the Spirit (see Doctrine and Covenants 8:2–3 ).
Prepare yourself to be an instrument through whom the Spirit can teach.
Think of the Holy Ghost as your companion in teaching.
Rely on the Spirit to help you know what to say.
He will bring the doctrine you have studied to your remembrance.
He will help you plan and adjust what you teach according to a person’s needs.
When you teach by the Spirit, He will carry your message unto people’s hearts.
He will confirm your message when you bear your testimony.
You and those who receive what you teach by the Spirit will be edified, understand one another, and rejoice together.
(See 2 Nephi 33:1 ; Doctrine and Covenants 50:13–22 .)
“The Spirit is the most important single element in this work.
With the Spirit magnifying your call, you can do miracles for the Lord in the mission field.
Without the Spirit, you will never succeed regardless of your talent and ability” (Ezra Taft Benson, seminar for new mission presidents, June 25, 1986).
The Promise of Your Calling
You have been called and set apart “to preach my gospel by the Spirit, even the Comforter which was sent forth to teach the truth” ( Doctrine and Covenants 50:14 ).
At times you may feel nervous or inadequate.
Perhaps you worry that you do not know enough or that you do not have enough experience.
Your Heavenly Father, who knows you perfectly, called you because of what you can offer as a committed follower of Jesus Christ.
He will not forsake you.
Trust that the Spirit will magnify your abilities and will teach the truth to those who are receptive.
Elder Neil L.
Andersen said: “As I contemplated the challenge of a mission, I felt very inadequate and unprepared.
I remember praying, ‘Heavenly Father, how can I serve a mission when I know so little?’ I believed in the Church, but I felt my spiritual knowledge was very limited.
As I prayed, the feeling came: ‘You don’t know everything, but you know enough!’ That reassurance gave me the courage to take the next step into the mission field” (“ You Know Enough ,” Ensign or Liahona , Nov.
2008, 13).
