Invite the Spirit as You Begin Teaching
The first few moments with people are very important.
Be genuine and respectful.
Show sincere interest and love.
Seek to earn their trust.
One way to earn trust is when people feel the Spirit with you.
Ask a few simple questions to help you understand their background and their expectations about your visits.
Listen carefully.
Before you begin, invite all who are present to join in the lesson.
Encourage them to remove distractions so the Spirit of the Lord can be felt.
Explain that you would like to begin and end each lesson with prayer.
Offer to give the opening prayer.
Pray simply and sincerely that God will bless the people you are teaching in every aspect of their lives.
Pray that they can feel the truth of what you will teach.
Remember that the “fervent prayer of a righteous [person] availeth much” ( James 5:16 ).
Have faith in the converting power of the Holy Ghost.
As guided by the Spirit, you may express thoughts such as the following as you begin teaching:
God is our loving Heavenly Father.
We are all brothers and sisters.
He wants us to experience joy.
We all have challenges and struggles.
No matter what you are going through, Jesus Christ and His teachings can help you.
He can help you find peace, hope, healing, and happiness.
Jesus can help you have greater strength for life’s challenges.
We all make mistakes, which can create feelings of guilt, shame, and regret.
These feelings will go away only as we repent and seek God’s forgiveness.
Only through the Atonement of Jesus Christ can we be fully healed from our sins.
We will be guides so you can learn the truth of our message for yourselves.
We will invite you to do some things, such as reading, praying, and attending church.
Our role is to help you act on these invitations and explain the blessings you can receive.
Please ask questions.
We have been called by a prophet of God to share what we know.
We know that our message is true.
We will teach you how to make covenants, or special promises, with God.
These covenants will connect you to God and allow you to receive joy, strength, and special promises from Him.
You will learn how to make changes in your life and follow Jesus Christ and His teachings.
One essential teaching of Jesus Christ, and the first covenant we make, is to follow His example and be baptized by proper authority (see John 3:5 ; Doctrine and Covenants 22 ).
Before teaching a lesson, give a simple overview of what you will teach.
Help people see how it will have relevance to them.
For example, you might say, “We are here to share the message that Jesus Christ has established His Church on the earth today and has called living prophets to guide us.” Or you might say, “We are here to help you know that God loves you and has a plan for your happiness.”
All people will benefit as they accept and live the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Heavenly Father may have blessed the people you find with valuable spiritual preparation (see Alma 16:16–17 ).
Inviting the Spirit and sharing truth in the first meeting will help people recognize you as servants of the Lord.
Personal or Companion Study
Use the suggestions in this section to practice different ways to begin a lesson.
Personal or Companion Study
Use the suggestions in this section to practice different ways to begin a lesson.
