Use the Scriptures
The standard works of the Church are your basic sources for teaching the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
There are many reasons why it is vital to use the scriptures as the basis for your teaching.
For example:
The scriptures invite the Holy Ghost into your teaching (see Luke 24:13–32 ).
The scriptures have a more powerful effect on the minds of people than anything else (see Alma 31:5 ).
The scriptures address the great questions of the soul (see chapter 5 ; see also 2 Nephi 32:3 ; Jacob 2:8 ).
The scriptures give authority and validity to your teaching.
The Lord and His prophets have said to do so (see Doctrine and Covenants 42:12, 56–58 ; 71:1 ).
By using the scriptures in your teaching, you can help others begin to study the scriptures on their own.
As your love for the scriptures is evident, they will be encouraged to study.
Show how studying the scriptures will help them learn the gospel and feel God’s love.
Give examples of how the scriptures can help them find answers to their questions and receive guidance and strength.
Devote yourself to studying the scriptures so you can teach from them effectively (see chapter 2 ).
Your ability to teach from the scriptures will improve as you study them every day, both personally and with your companion.
Help people develop faith in Jesus Christ through studying the scriptures, particularly the Book of Mormon.
The following suggestions may help.
Introduce the Scripture
Briefly describe the background of the passage.
The following examples show some ways to introduce a scripture:
“In Joseph Smith’s history, Joseph tells us in his own words what happened as he went into the grove to pray.
He said, ‘I saw a pillar of light …’”
“In this passage, the prophet Alma is teaching people who are poor to exercise their faith in the word of God.
He compares the word of God to a seed that can be planted in our hearts.
Will you begin reading verse … ?”
Read the Passage
Read the verses aloud or ask the person you are teaching to read aloud.
Be sensitive to those who struggle to read.
If a passage is difficult for them to understand, read with them and explain as needed.
Define any difficult words or phrases.
Or give them a simpler passage to read.
Invite them to look for particular points in the passage.
Apply the Scriptures
Nephi said, “I did liken all scriptures unto us, that it might be for our profit and learning” ( 1 Nephi 19:23 ).
To “liken” means to apply the scriptures to your life.
Liken the scriptures to those you teach by showing how the stories and principles are relevant to them personally.
For example:
“Like you, the people of Alma had heavy burdens, almost more than they could bear.
But as they exercised faith and prayed, God strengthened them so they could endure the challenges.
Then He delivered them from their trials.
Just as He did with these people, I know God will help you in your trials as you …” (See Mosiah 24 .)
“Alma’s instruction to the people at the Waters of Mormon applies to us today.
John, are you willing to … ?” (See Mosiah 18 .)
Teach people how to “liken” the scriptures on their own.
Discovering personal applications will help them apply and experience the power of the word of God.
Invite and Help People to Read on Their Own
The people you teach need to read the scriptures, particularly the Book of Mormon, to gain a testimony of the truth.
By effectively using the scriptures in your teaching, you can help people begin to study the scriptures on their own.
After each visit, suggest specific chapters or verses for them to read.
Suggest questions for them to consider as they read.
Encourage them to study the scriptures daily on their own and with their families.
You might also ask members to read with them between lessons.
Before beginning the next lesson, follow up by discussing what you invited people to read.
As needed, help them understand and “liken” these scriptures.
Encourage them to record their thoughts and questions.
When you help people read, understand, and apply the scriptures—especially the Book of Mormon—they will have spiritual experiences with the word of God.
They will be more likely to read on their own and make the scriptures an important part of their lives.
Help People Access the Scriptures
The scriptures and the words of living prophets are available in more ways and more languages than ever before.
Learn what print and digital options are available to the people you teach.
Help people access the scriptures in ways that match their needs and preferences.
Consider the following:
Ask people which language they would like to read or listen to the scriptures in.
Those who struggle to read, or who struggle to understand what they read, may benefit from reading aloud together or listening to audio recordings.
These are available through free Church apps and websites.
If a person has a digital device, help him or her access the scriptures, especially the Book of Mormon.
The Book of Mormon app and Gospel Library are free and easy to share.
If using text, chat, or email, send links or images of scriptures.
When teaching in video chat, consider sharing your screen so you can read verses together.
Help people access the words of the living prophets.
Personal or Companion Study
Make sure you and your companion have the updated scriptures resources on your phone, including the Book of Mormon app and the Gospel Library.
Select one of the following scripture passages: title page of the Book of Mormon ; 3 Nephi 11 ; Moroni 10:3–8 ; John 17:3 ; Romans 8:16–17 ; 1 Corinthians 15:29 ; James 1:5 ; 1 Peter 3:19–20 ; Amos 3:7 .
Determine how you would:
Introduce the passage.
Provide background and context.
Read the passage and explain its meaning.
Explain difficult words.
Help those you teach apply it in their lives.
Personal or Companion Study
Make sure you and your companion have the updated scriptures resources on your phone, including the Book of Mormon app and the Gospel Library.
Select one of the following scripture passages: title page of the Book of Mormon ; 3 Nephi 11 ; Moroni 10:3–8 ; John 17:3 ; Romans 8:16–17 ; 1 Corinthians 15:29 ; James 1:5 ; 1 Peter 3:19–20 ; Amos 3:7 .
Determine how you would:
Introduce the passage.
Provide background and context.
Read the passage and explain its meaning.
Explain difficult words.
Help those you teach apply it in their lives.
Scripture Study
Why is it important to teach from the scriptures?
1 Nephi 19:23
2 Nephi 4:15–16 ; 32:3
Doctrine and Covenants 20:7–12
2 Timothy 3:15–17
Scripture Study
Why is it important to teach from the scriptures?
1 Nephi 19:23
2 Nephi 4:15–16 ; 32:3
Doctrine and Covenants 20:7–12
2 Timothy 3:15–17
