Plan and Adjust Your Teaching to Meet Needs
Each person you teach is unique.
Seek to understand his or her spiritual interests, needs, and concerns.
Ask questions and listen carefully.
Although you may not fully understand the person’s needs, remember that Heavenly Father does.
He will guide you through the Holy Ghost.
Let the Spirit Guide the Order of the Lessons
Let the Spirit guide the order in which you teach the lessons.
You have the flexibility to teach the lessons in the order that is best for the needs, questions, and circumstances of those you teach.
Occasionally you might combine principles from different lessons to address a person’s needs and interests.
See the following three examples.
Yuki found you online and is asking why her friends in the Church do not smoke or drink.
You might teach her about the blessings of commandments by using the following sections from chapter 3:
Our Covenant to Keep the Commandments of God
Obey the Word of Wisdom
The Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ through Joseph Smith
Samuel doesn’t feel like he belongs anywhere.
You might teach him about his identity and his place in God’s family by using the following sections from chapter 3:
God Is Our Loving Heavenly Father
Premortal Life: God’s Purpose and Plan for Us
The Gospel of Jesus Christ Blesses All of God’s Children
Tatyana has studied many religions and wants to know what makes the Church different.
You might teach her about the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ by using the following sections from chapter 3:
The Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ through Joseph Smith
The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ
Pray to Know the Truth through the Holy Ghost
Heavenly Father knows His children, so seek inspiration to make these decisions as you prepare to teach.
Pray for the gift of discernment as you decide what to teach.
Pay attention to the thoughts and feelings that come to you.
Allow Time for People to Apply What They Are Learning
When you teach, allow time for people to apply what they are learning (see 3 Nephi 17:2–3 ).
Look for appropriate ways to support them in keeping their commitments.
Focus on helping them with actions that will build a foundation of faith, such as praying, reading, and attending church.
This will enable them to keep additional commitments.
As you plan and teach, be sensitive about how much new information you share.
A primary objective of your teaching is to help a person build faith in Jesus Christ so it leads to repentance.
Your objective is not to see how much information you can dispense.
Teach at a pace that is appropriate for the person.
Ask questions and listen carefully so you understand how well he or she is learning and applying what you are teaching.
The truths you teach, coupled with the power of the Holy Ghost, can influence people to exercise their agency in ways that build their faith in Christ.
As they exercise faith in the Lord by applying what they learn, they will come to know by the Spirit that the gospel is true.
Use a Variety of Teaching Opportunities
Teaching opportunities take many forms, such as in-person visits, video chats, phone calls, text messages, and social media.
Respect People’s Time
Keep your teaching simple and brief.
People are more likely to meet with you when you respect their time and requests.
Ask how much time they have for the visit.
Start and end any conversation at the agreed time, whether teaching in person or online.
Be aware that in some places, phone calls or video chats can be expensive.
You will need multiple meetings to teach the principles in one lesson.
Typically a teaching visit should not be longer than 30 minutes, and you can teach a person in as few as 5 minutes.
Adjust your teaching according to people’s time.
Use Technology Wisely
You have many opportunities to teach people using technology.
Some people prefer the convenience or privacy of interacting through electronic means.
Even people you visit in person can benefit from additional support through technology.
Discuss the resources available to communicate.
Then follow up and stay connected.
Allow each person’s preferences to guide your interactions.
Technology such as video calls can be especially helpful for teaching people who have busy schedules or live far away.
Sometimes it is easier for members to participate in a lesson via technology.
Help Younger Learners
During the Savior’s ministry, He told His disciples, “Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God” ( Mark 10:14 ).
When you teach children, adjust your approach and message to meet their needs.
Help them learn the gospel by discussing things that are familiar to them.
Ensure that they understand what you are teaching.
Scripture Study
Read Doctrine and Covenants 84:85 .
What does it mean to be given “that portion that shall be meted unto every man”?
How can you apply this in your teaching?
What has the Lord promised faithful missionaries about knowing what to say?
Doctrine and Covenants 68:2–3 ; 100:5–8
Matthew 10:19–20
Scripture Study
Read Doctrine and Covenants 84:85 .
What does it mean to be given “that portion that shall be meted unto every man”?
How can you apply this in your teaching?
What has the Lord promised faithful missionaries about knowing what to say?
Doctrine and Covenants 68:2–3 ; 100:5–8
Matthew 10:19–20
