Invite Members to Participate
Invite members to help you teach and support the people you are working with.
This may happen in person or virtually.
During the weekly coordination meeting, counsel with ward leaders about who could help.
When members participate in teaching and fellowshipping, they can add insights and make connections as friends.
They will feel the joy of missionary work.
Invite Members to Help You Teach
Before lessons, plan with members how to work together.
You could use a text message or brief phone call to confirm what you will be teaching, who will pray, who will lead the conversation, and other details.
Members’ primary role in lessons is to offer sincere testimony, share brief personal experiences, and develop a relationship with those being taught.
You might ask members to share how they were able to learn, accept, and live a particular principle in the lesson.
If they are converts, invite them to share how they decided to join the Church.
When members refer someone, ask them to participate in the teaching.
Members may be more involved in these situations.
Counsel with them about how they would like to participate.
Consider how using technology to teach with members might be appropriate.
Technology allows members to join you without the time commitment that an in-person visit requires.
In the weekly coordination meeting, plan with ward leaders to have a member participate in as many lessons as possible (see chapter 13 ).
Consider asking new members to help you teach.
Personal or Companion Study
Imagine that you have an appointment to teach a lesson to a family in a member’s home.
Discuss how you would involve each of the following members in helping you teach:
A ward missionary who recently returned from a full-time mission
A priest
A new member
The elders quorum or Relief Society president
Personal or Companion Study
Imagine that you have an appointment to teach a lesson to a family in a member’s home.
Discuss how you would involve each of the following members in helping you teach:
A ward missionary who recently returned from a full-time mission
A priest
A new member
The elders quorum or Relief Society president
Invite Members to Give Support
Members can also give valuable support to people between teaching visits.
They can text, read scriptures together, invite people to their homes or to activities, or invite them to sit together at church.
They can answer questions and show what their lives are like as members of the Church.
Their life experience and perspective can help them relate with people in ways that are sometimes very different from how missionaries relate.
Counsel with members about ways you can work together to support people outside of teaching visits.
