Listen
When you listen carefully to others, you understand them better.
When they know that their thoughts and feelings are important to you, they are more likely to be receptive to your teachings, share personal experiences, and make commitments.
As you listen, you will gain insight into how to adapt your teaching to their needs and interests.
You will have a better understanding of which gospel truths would be most beneficial to them.
Especially listen for the whisperings of the Spirit.
When others share their feelings, the Holy Ghost may prompt you with thoughts or ideas.
The Spirit can also help you understand what others are trying to express.
Listen with Genuine Caring
Listening takes effort and genuine caring.
While others talk, make sure you are concentrating on what they are saying.
Avoid the tendency to be planning what you will say.
Elder Jeffrey R.
Holland taught: “More important than speaking is listening.
These people are not lifeless objects disguised as a baptismal statistic.
… Ask these friends what matters most to them .
What do they cherish, and what do they hold dear?
And then listen.
If the setting is right you might ask what their fears are, what they yearn for, or what they feel is missing in their lives.
I promise you that something in what they say will always highlight a truth of the gospel about which you can bear testimony and about which you can then offer more.
… If we listen with love, we won’t need to wonder what to say.
It will be given to us—by the Spirit and by our friends” (“ Witnesses unto Me ,” Ensign , May 2001, 15).
Observe Unspoken Messages
People also communicate through their body language.
Notice the way they sit, their facial expressions, what they do with their hands, their tone of voice, and where they are looking.
Observing these unspoken messages can help you understand the feelings of those you teach.
Also be aware of your own body language.
Send a message of interest and enthusiasm by listening sincerely.
Allow People Time to Think and Respond
The Savior often asked questions that required time for a person to respond.
When you ask a question, pause to give the person a chance to think and respond.
Do not be afraid of silence.
People often need time to think about and reply to questions or to express what they are feeling.
You might pause after asking a question, after sharing a spiritual experience, or when people are having difficulty expressing themselves.
Be sure to give them time to complete their thoughts before you respond.
Do not interrupt while they are talking.
Respond with Empathy
When a person answers a question, begin your response by expressing empathy if appropriate.
Empathy shows that you genuinely care.
Refrain from jumping to conclusions, immediately offering solutions, or appearing to have all the answers.
Confirm That You Understand What People Say
When seeking to understand what a person is saying, ask to make sure you understand.
For example, you might ask, “So what you are saying is .
Is that right?” or “If I understand correctly, you are feeling that .” When you are not sure if you understand, ask the person for clarification.
Navigate Challenging Interactions
You will help people most by teaching them the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Some people may want to do most of the talking.
Sometimes people simply need someone to listen compassionately to their struggles and feelings.
Other people may seek to dominate or argue.
Learn to manage such situations tactfully and with love.
You may be able to adapt your teaching to address something a person shared.
Or you may need to politely say that you would like to discuss their concern at another time.
The Spirit can help you know how to respond in challenging situations.
Help People Feel Comfortable Sharing True Feelings
To avoid embarrassment, some people will answer questions the way they think you want them to answer rather than share their true feelings.
Seek to develop a relationship that allows them to be comfortable sharing their true feelings with you.
Understanding and connecting with people will allow you to help them, meet their interests and needs, and express the Savior’s love to them.
Create a relationship of trust by being honest with them, maintaining an appropriate missionary relationship, and showing respect.
Personal or Companion Study
Reflect on how well you are listening to others.
Write answers in your study journal to the questions below.
Or discuss them with your companion.
A = Never true of me, B = Sometimes true of me, C = Usually true of me, D = Always true of me
When others talk to me, I think of similar experiences I can share instead of listening carefully.
When others tell me about their feelings, I try to put myself in their position to see how I would feel.
When I teach people, I think about what I am going to say or teach next.
I get frustrated when people talk a lot.
I struggle to follow or understand what others are trying to tell me.
My mind often wanders while my companion is teaching.
I get upset if someone is talking to me and others cut in or distract my attention.
I receive spiritual promptings to say or do something, but I ignore them.
Personal or Companion Study
Reflect on how well you are listening to others.
Write answers in your study journal to the questions below.
Or discuss them with your companion.
A = Never true of me, B = Sometimes true of me, C = Usually true of me, D = Always true of me
When others talk to me, I think of similar experiences I can share instead of listening carefully.
When others tell me about their feelings, I try to put myself in their position to see how I would feel.
When I teach people, I think about what I am going to say or teach next.
I get frustrated when people talk a lot.
I struggle to follow or understand what others are trying to tell me.
My mind often wanders while my companion is teaching.
I get upset if someone is talking to me and others cut in or distract my attention.
I receive spiritual promptings to say or do something, but I ignore them.
