Help People Find Answers to Their Questions and Concerns
Make an earnest effort to address people’s questions and help them resolve their concerns.
However, it is not your responsibility to answer every question.
Ultimately, people must resolve their questions and concerns for themselves.
Realize that not all questions and concerns can be completely answered.
Some answers become clearer with time.
Others have not yet been revealed.
Focus on building a firm foundation of the basic, essential truths of the gospel.
This foundation will help you and those you teach press forward with patience and faith when there are unanswered or difficult questions.
Some principles for answering questions are outlined in this section.
Understand the Concern
Some of what you teach people might seem difficult or unfamiliar to them.
If people have questions or concerns, first seek to understand them clearly.
Sometimes people’s concerns are like an iceberg.
Only a small part is visible above the surface.
These concerns can be complex.
Pray for the gift of discernment, and follow the Spirit in how you respond.
Heavenly Father knows the hearts and experiences of all people (the complete iceberg).
He will help you know what is best for each person.
Often concerns are more social than doctrinal.
For example, some people might fear opposition from family members if they join the Church.
Or they might fear rejection from their friends at work.
Seek to understand the source of the concern by asking questions and listening.
Did the concern arise because the person does not have a spiritual confirmation of the truth of the Restoration?
Did it arise because the person does not want to commit to living a gospel principle?
Knowing the root of their concern will help you know whether to focus on testimony or commitment.
Use the Scriptures, Especially the Book of Mormon, to Help Answer Questions
Show people how the truths in the scriptures can help answer their questions and address their concerns.
(See “ The Book of Mormon Addresses Questions of the Soul ” in chapter 5.) When people seek inspiration by studying and applying the scriptures, they will increase their capacity to hear and follow the Lord.
Their faith in Him will increase.
With increased faith will come testimony, repentance, and the ordinance of baptism.
“Sometimes I go to the scriptures for doctrine.
Sometimes I go to the scriptures for instruction.
I go with a question, and the question usually is ‘What would God have me do?’ or ‘What would He have me feel?’ Invariably I find new ideas, thoughts I have never had before, and I receive inspiration and instruction and answers to my questions” (Henry B.
Eyring, in “ A Discussion on Scripture Study ,” Ensign , July 2005, 22).
It can be helpful to explain that much of our understanding of the gospel of Jesus Christ comes from what has been revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith and those who succeeded him.
Questions about the truthfulness of the gospel can be resolved by gaining a testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God.
Reading and praying about the Book of Mormon is a vital way to gain this testimony.
Help people focus on strengthening their faith in Jesus Christ.
Reading and praying about the Book of Mormon is an important way to strengthen their faith.
Invite People to Act in Faith
As people develop and strengthen their testimony of the restored gospel, they will be able to address their questions and concerns from a foundation of faith.
As they act in faith on the truths they believe, they will be able to gain testimonies of other gospel truths.
Some ways to act in faith include:
Praying often and with real intent for inspiration and guidance.
Studying the scriptures, especially the Book of Mormon.
Attending church.
Use Reliable Sources
Encourage people to use reliable sources if they have questions.
Explain that not all sources are trustworthy, particularly on the internet.
Many sources use information in misleading ways.
The best sources for learning about the Church are Church-approved resources.
Use Reliable Sources
Encourage people to use reliable sources if they have questions.
Explain that not all sources are trustworthy, particularly on the internet.
Many sources use information in misleading ways.
The best sources for learning about the Church are Church-approved resources.
Companion Study
Choose one invitation to extend when you teach a lesson.
Then identify concerns that might keep someone from accepting the invitation or keeping the commitment.
Discuss and practice how you can help people work to resolve their concerns.
Companion Study
Choose one invitation to extend when you teach a lesson.
Then identify concerns that might keep someone from accepting the invitation or keeping the commitment.
Discuss and practice how you can help people work to resolve their concerns.
Personal or Companion Study
In your study journal, write how you would refer to Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon to respond to the following concerns:
“I don’t believe that God speaks to people anymore.”
“I believe that I can worship God in my own way rather than through an organized religion.”
“Why should I give up drinking wine with my meals if I join your church?”
“Why do I need religion?”
Personal or Companion Study
In your study journal, write how you would refer to Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon to respond to the following concerns:
“I don’t believe that God speaks to people anymore.”
“I believe that I can worship God in my own way rather than through an organized religion.”
“Why should I give up drinking wine with my meals if I join your church?”
“Why do I need religion?”
