Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Assume you are placed in the following situations.
How might you use the principles and skills in this chapter to help these people progress?
Plan how you would apply them in each situation.
Someone who has been preparing for baptism tells you that he or she no longer wants to meet with you.
You are meeting for the seventh time with a person who has been taught by several missionaries over a two-year period.
There have been few if any signs of progress.
Select one of the missionary lessons.
Identify one or two scripture passages from each main principle.
Practice teaching from those passages as outlined in the “ Use the Scriptures ” section of this chapter.
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Read the account of Ammon and King Lamoni in Alma 18–19 and the account of Aaron in Alma 22:4–18 .
As you read, identify and describe how Ammon and Aaron:
Followed the Spirit and taught with love.
Began to teach.
Adapted their teaching to meet needs.
Bore testimony.
Used the scriptures.
Asked questions, listened, and helped those they taught to resolve their concerns.
Encouraged those they taught to make commitments.
Discuss how their service and teaching impacted King Lamoni, his father, and Abish.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite members or those currently being taught to your meeting.
Explain to the group that you want missionaries to improve their ability to share their important message.
Select a lesson and a skill.
Have the missionaries teach the person or people the lesson you have selected for 20 minutes, focusing on the skill you have identified.
Have them switch who they teach after 20 minutes.
After the missionaries have taught, bring the group together.
Have the person or people tell the missionaries what was most effective and one way they can improve.
Show video examples of missionaries teaching or contacting people.
Select a skill and discuss how well the missionaries applied the principles for that skill.
Select a skill, and identify doctrine or scripture passages that support it.
Teach the doctrinal foundation of the skill to the missionaries.
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
Occasionally accompany missionaries as they teach.
Plan how you can participate in the teaching.
Encourage local leaders to participate with missionaries in their teaching visits.
Demonstrate and help missionaries practice one of the teaching skills described in this chapter, such as asking good questions and listening.
Demonstrate the effective use of scriptures when teaching missionaries in zone conferences, mission leadership council, and interviews.
Do the same when you teach with them.
Help missionaries understand the scriptures and develop a love for them.
Elder Jeffrey R.
Holland counseled mission leaders:
“Make a love for the word of God absolutely central to your mission culture.
… Make familiarity with the revelations and regular use of the standard works one of the chief characteristics of your missionaries for the rest of their lives.
“When you teach your missionaries—and that is all the time—teach them from the scriptures.
Let them see where you get your strength and inspiration.
Teach them to love and depend on those accumulated revelations.
“[My] mission president taught from the Book of Mormon and [other] scriptures every time we were in his presence, or so it seemed.
Personal interviews were laced with scripture.
Outlines for … meetings were drawn from the standard works.
…
“We didn’t know it at the time, but our president was arming us on the right hand and on the left, exhorting us with all the energy of his soul and with all the faculty he possessed to hold fast to the iron rod in order that we would never perish [see 1 Nephi 15:23–25 ]” (“The Power of the Scriptures” seminar for new mission leaders, June 25, 2022).
