The Baptismal Service
The Spirit is manifest strongly as the sacred ordinances of baptism and confirmation are performed.
The baptismal service and subsequent confirmation should be spiritual highlights for new converts.
You and the ward mission leader should do everything you can to ensure that the baptismal service is organized, inspiring, and memorable.
These services should strengthen the new converts in their commitment to remain active.
Invite a member of the bishopric, quorum and auxiliary leaders, and ministering brothers and sisters (if assigned) to attend the baptismal service.
Encourage the person being baptized to invite his or her friends and relatives (for example, by creating an event on social media) to attend the baptismal service and the sacrament meeting where the confirmation will take place.
Consider inviting other people you are teaching to attend.
These experiences will help them feel the Spirit and prepare them to accept an invitation to learn more about the gospel.
Work with the person being baptized and the ward mission leader to invite the person’s friends and relatives to attend.
Then follow through after the service to discuss their experience and invite them to learn why their friend chose to be baptized.
The missionaries who taught the person being baptized coordinate with the ward mission leader to organize the service.
If a baptismal service is scheduled on a Sunday, it should be held at a time that minimizes interference with regular Sunday meetings.
Explain to the person being baptized what is planned and why.
Discuss proper dress, including how the person will be given white clothing to wear for the baptism.
Agree on the place and time for the baptism.
A member of the bishopric or the ward mission leader normally conducts the service.
Following are essential items to plan and organize.
A baptismal service may include:
Prelude music.
A brief welcome by the priesthood leader who is conducting the service (a member of the bishopric should preside, if possible).
An opening hymn and prayer.
One or two short talks on gospel subjects, such as baptism and the Holy Ghost.
A musical selection.
Performance of the baptism.
A time of reverence while the people who participate in the baptism change into dry clothes.
This could include interlude music or singing well-known hymns and Primary songs.
It could also include a brief gospel presentation by the full-time missionaries for nonmembers who may be present.
An opportunity for new converts to bear their testimonies, if desired.
A closing hymn and prayer.
Postlude music.
