Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Read 2 Nephi 2 ; 9 ; 30 ; 31 ; 32 .
Highlight each reference to Jesus Christ.
Make a list of the different names and titles for Christ in these chapters.
Mark His spoken words.
Highlight His attributes and actions.
As you read daily from the Book of Mormon, record in your study journal the passages that have special meaning for you.
Write how you will apply them in your life.
Write in your study journal how you felt when you first gained a spiritual witness that the Book of Mormon is true.
Write the following three questions in your study journal.
Throughout your mission, add answers to these questions.
What would my life be like without the Book of Mormon?
What would I not know without the Book of Mormon?
What would I not have without the Book of Mormon?
Read the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5–7 and Christ’s sermon at the temple in 3 Nephi 12–14 .
How does reading these together help you better understand the Savior’s teachings?
Study each instance in the Book of Mormon that references someone praying.
In your study journal, write what you learn from the Book of Mormon about prayer.
From the chapter headings of Mosiah 11–16 , write a summary of what Abinadi taught.
Then read these chapters and expand your summary.
From the chapter headings of Mosiah 2–5 , write a summary of what King Benjamin taught.
Then read these chapters and expand your summary.
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Read Book of Mormon passages together.
Share what you have learned and felt.
Discuss how you will apply them in your life.
Read Alma 26 and 29 together.
Share how you feel about your mission.
Write your feelings in your study journal.
Read Alma 37:9 and discuss how critical the scriptures were to Ammon and his fellow missionaries.
Find references that describe how they used the scriptures.
Read Alma 11–14 , with one of you taking the role of Alma or Amulek and the other taking the role of the detractors.
Discuss how these missionaries responded to difficult questions.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Practice using the Book of Mormon in each of the ways mentioned in the main headings of this chapter.
List questions raised by those you are teaching.
Explain to each other how you would respond to these questions using the Book of Mormon.
Read Book of Mormon passages together.
Share knowledge, feelings, and testimony.
Practice using the Book of Mormon to confirm the message of the Restoration.
Invite missionaries to share experiences in which the Book of Mormon has helped them and those they have taught in the conversion process.
Have missionaries share a favorite Book of Mormon scripture that helps address a question of the soul.
Invite a member who is a convert to share the role of the Book of Mormon in his or her conversion.
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
Teach the missionaries how to use the Book of Mormon to confirm the truthfulness of the message of the Restoration.
Read 1 Nephi 1 with the missionaries and compare it with Joseph Smith’s experience.
Provide missionaries with a clean paperback copy of the Book of Mormon.
Invite them to read and mark the book twice during the next two or three transfer periods.
On the first reading, ask them to mark everything that points to or testifies of Jesus Christ.
On the second reading, ask them to mark gospel doctrine and principles.
Have missionaries share what they have learned and felt.
Elder Ronald A.
Rasband described how reading the Book of Mormon this way affected him as a missionary:
“There was much more to my reading than just marking scriptures.
With each reading of the Book of Mormon, front to back, I was filled with a profound love for the Lord.
I felt a deeply rooted witness of the truth of His teachings and how they apply to ‘this day.’ This book fits its title, ‘Another Testament of Jesus Christ.’ With that study and the spiritual witness that was received, I became a Book of Mormon missionary and a disciple of Jesus Christ” (“ This Day ,” Liahona , Nov.
2022, 25).
Invite missionaries to share with you Book of Mormon scriptures that have been important in their lives.
Identify questions of the soul for people in your mission.
Invite missionaries to find verses in the Book of Mormon that help address these questions.
