Repentance, Commitment, and Conversion
As a missionary and disciple of Jesus Christ, you desire the salvation of souls (see Mosiah 28:3 ).
The Savior is “mighty to save” those who keep the covenants they make through receiving essential priesthood ordinances, beginning with baptism (see 2 Nephi 31:19 ).
Extending invitations and helping people keep commitments will prepare them for baptism.
People are saved on condition of repentance (see Helaman 5:11 ).
Repentance is a full and sincere turning to Jesus Christ.
Commitment is an essential part of repentance.
When you invite people to make commitments as part of your teaching, you are inviting them to repent.
Commitment means choosing a course of action and following through on that choice.
Consistently acting on truths of the gospel leads to conversion.
Conversion is a change in a person’s beliefs, heart, and life to accept and follow God’s will.
It is a conscious decision to become a disciple of Christ.
Conversion occurs as people exercise faith in Christ, repent of their sins, are baptized, receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and endure to the end.
The Lord and His prophets refer to this change as a spiritual rebirth (see John 3:3–5 ; Mosiah 27:25–26 ).
The Savior’s Atonement makes conversion possible, and the Holy Ghost brings about this mighty change of heart (see Mosiah 5:2 ; Alma 5:12–14 ).
Conversion is a process, not an event.
Helping people become converted to Jesus Christ is central to your missionary purpose.
As guided by the Spirit, you invite people to make commitments that will help them grow spiritually and feel the influence of the Holy Ghost in their lives.
Then you support people in keeping the commitments they have made.
You help them act in faith toward lasting change (see Mosiah 6:3 ).
People who keep commitments before baptism are more likely to make and keep sacred covenants afterward.
When you teach people to keep commitments, you are teaching them to keep covenants.
Making and keeping covenants is an essential part of the gospel of Jesus Christ and God’s plan for His children.
This chapter includes guidelines for extending invitations, promising blessings, sharing your testimony, and helping people keep their commitments so they can come unto the Savior and be saved.
