Help People Keep Their Commitments
When people accept your invitations to do something, follow up to help them keep their commitments.
You are helping people develop faith in Christ.
Your role is to help them strengthen their faith and their resolve to progress toward full conversion.
Do not just invite people to change; support them in doing it.
People will receive a witness of the Spirit as they exercise faith unto repentance by keeping commitments.
That witness often does not come “until after the trial of [their] faith” ( Ether 12:6 ).
Do not be surprised when opposition arises.
Plan how you will help them through the trial so they receive the witness of the Spirit.
Other members of the Church can also provide support.
People often feel the influence of the Spirit when you are with them.
Emphasize the importance of praying, reading the scriptures, and following through on your invitations so they will have these feelings when they are on their own.
Keeping commitments prepares people for ordinances and covenants along the path of lifelong conversion.
Your efforts can help them “manifest by their works” their desire to follow Jesus Christ ( Doctrine and Covenants 20:37 ).
Plan for Brief Daily Contact
Helping people keep commitments begins when you first visit and teach them.
Ask them to record their commitment on their phone, calendar, or something you leave with them.
Ask if you, or a member who has been participating, can make a brief daily contact between teaching visits.
Explain that the purpose of these contacts is to support them, and describe some ways you can do that.
These contacts are one way to apply the principle in Doctrine and Covenants 84:106 .
Determine the method of contact that would be most effective, such as a brief visit, phone call, text, or social media message.
Technology offers many options for additional reminders and support.
Encourage and Help People in Your Daily Contact
For every invitation you extend, record notes in the Preach My Gospel app about how to follow up the next day.
As you plan the next day, seek the guidance of the Spirit as you discuss how to help people keep their commitments.
Make your daily contacts with people positive and encouraging.
Pray for them.
Show love and understanding as you help them keep their commitments.
Answer questions and help them overcome challenges.
If there is time, read together from the Book of Mormon.
Share relevant Church media, including music produced by the Church that might lift them.
Be respectful of their time and wishes.
Introduce them to other Church members.
When appropriate, ask members to help people keep their commitments (see chapter 10 ).
Compliment people who are working to keep their commitments.
Help them see how the Lord is pleased with their efforts.
These people are changing their lives, which takes a lot of work and patience.
Help them recognize the blessings they are receiving.
Express confidence that they can succeed.
Also show love if people have not kept their commitments.
Offer to support them during your daily contact.
For example, if someone accepted an invitation to read a chapter in the Book of Mormon but has not done it yet, offer to read it together.
Help the person discover by experience how keeping commitments can bless his or her life.
It might take many tries for people to keep a commitment, and you might need to make several visits to help them.
Discuss how they can overcome challenges to keeping commitments.
Be patient and supportive, not critical or judgmental.
Have the Influence of the Holy Ghost in Your Daily Contact
When you follow up with people, ask them to share their experience with keeping commitments.
Ask what they have learned and felt.
This will help them recognize the Spirit’s influence in their lives and help them identify the next step.
As you contact people each day, an important part of your purpose is to invite the influence of the Holy Ghost into their lives.
Help them recognize how to feel the Spirit when you are not present.
Your daily contact should strengthen the spiritual feelings they felt when you taught them.
They will be converted as they feel the power and influence of the Holy Ghost.
Show Love
The process of conversion is centered in Christlike love (see 4 Nephi 1:15 ).
Seek the gift of charity.
Showing sincere love can help people feel the Spirit in their lives.
Your expressions of love can also help them accept invitations and keep commitments that lead to conversion.
As you love and teach others, your own conversion to the Savior will deepen.
Assisting with the conversion of another person is a sacred work.
You will find lasting joy as you devote yourself to this work and to serving others (see Matthew 10:39 ; Mosiah 2:17 ; Alma 27:17–18 ; Doctrine and Covenants 18:10–16 ).
Personal or Companion Study
Record in the Preach My Gospel app your plans for daily contact with each person you are teaching.
Plan several days in advance what you will do to follow up with each person.
Choose one invitation you will extend when you teach each person.
Then identify different concerns that might keep someone from accepting or keeping that commitment.
Discuss and practice how you can best help people as they work to resolve their concerns.
Personal or Companion Study
Record in the Preach My Gospel app your plans for daily contact with each person you are teaching.
Plan several days in advance what you will do to follow up with each person.
Choose one invitation you will extend when you teach each person.
Then identify different concerns that might keep someone from accepting or keeping that commitment.
Discuss and practice how you can best help people as they work to resolve their concerns.
