Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Identify a commandment listed in either lesson 4 or 5 .
Think of the blessings you have received from obeying this commandment, and write them in your journal.
When you write home, ask your family members how they have been blessed by obeying a specific commandment (for example, tithing).
Write how you feel about extending invitations.
Are you bold or timid?
Are you confident that people will be blessed, or do you have doubts?
Are you consistent, patient, and helpful as you make daily contact?
Do the people know you love them?
How can you correct any weakness you identify in your invitations?
Review your lesson plans for each lesson.
Do you include specific invitations?
Does your lesson plan lead clearly to invitations to act?
Companion Study
From your planning tools, make a list of people you have contacted in the past two days, including those you are teaching and members.
For each person, write the commitment or commitments they made and other invitations you could have or should have extended.
Discuss why you were able to obtain commitments from some of these people and what prevented you from obtaining commitments from others.
What will you do to follow up on these invitations?
Look at your planning tools, and write the names of specific people you will teach in the next day or two.
Consider which commandment or commandments listed in lessons 4 and 5 you will invite them to live.
Discuss how you will extend the invitation and the specific blessings you will promise for obedience.
Consider showing the Teaching Record to the people you are teaching to let them know what will be expected.
If appropriate, share a copy with them.
Review your notes for the past three days to see if you have written your assignments to follow up on every invitation you have extended.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Discuss effective and creative ideas for daily contact with people you are teaching.
How have missionaries worked with members effectively?
What printed or digital media are useful?
What can you do when people are not home or are too busy to see you?
Discuss ways that missionaries have effectively taught the commandments in lessons 4 and 5 .
Discuss specific concerns of some of the people you are currently teaching.
What are the nature of these concerns?
What can the missionaries do to resolve the concerns?
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
When possible, accompany missionaries as they teach.
Help them focus on helping people make and keep commitments.
Encourage priesthood leaders, auxiliary leaders, and members to actively participate in making daily contact with those you are teaching.
Be an example of extending invitations in your missionary efforts and with the missionaries you serve.
