Prepare to Teach
As you prepare to teach, review the information for each person in the Preach My Gospel app.
Make a lesson plan based on the person’s needs.
Consider what he or she should know and feel during your teaching visit.
The Spirit will magnify your efforts as you take time to prepare and plan.
Here are some questions for you and your companion to prayerfully consider as you prepare to teach.
What invitation will we extend to help the person build faith in Christ and make progress?
Invitations are how you help people repent and experience “the power of the Redeemer” ( Helaman 5:11 ).
Consider the person’s progress, situation, and needs.
Then include one or more invitations in your lesson plan.
What doctrine and principles will help the person keep the commitment we have invited him or her to make?
Prayerfully determine what doctrine and principles will help people understand why keeping their commitment is important for them and to the Lord.
How will we help the person learn the doctrine?
To prepare to teach the doctrine, organize and summarize what you will teach using lessons 1–4 .
Identify questions, scriptures, examples, and appropriate media that will help the person understand what you teach.
See chapter 10 for information about how to improve your teaching.
What blessings has God promised for accepting and keeping commitments?
As you study the doctrine, identify God’s promised blessings.
As you teach, promise blessings and bear testimony of them.
Which members could participate?
In the weekly coordination meeting, determine which members could help you teach and support the person.
Before the lesson, discuss their participation.
See chapter 10 .
What can we do to help people keep their commitments after we leave?
Follow up by making a brief daily contact to help people keep their commitments.
Look for ways to include members in helping those you teach keep their commitments.
This contact could include reading a chapter from the Book of Mormon or other scriptures.
If someone is not keeping a previous commitment, it may be better to help with that before extending another one.
See chapter 11 .
How can we better help them next time?
After every teaching situation, evaluate the experience of the people you are teaching.
Is their faith in Christ growing?
Are they feeling the Spirit?
Are they repenting and making and keeping commitments?
Are they praying, studying the Book of Mormon, and attending church?
Make plans to help them.
