Personal Revelation
Joseph Smith said, “Salvation cannot come without revelation; it is in vain for anyone to minister without it” (Discourse, between circa 26 June and circa 4 August 1839-A, as reported by Willard Richards, Church History Library, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City).
You will succeed in your work as you learn to receive and follow personal revelation.
Joseph Smith also taught that revelation is vital for your daily work: “This is the principle on which the government of heaven is conducted—by revelation adapted to the circumstances in which the children of the kingdom are placed” (History, 1838–1856, volume D-1 [1 August 1842–1 July 1843, Church History Library, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City]).
God loves you and all His children.
He is anxious to support you in your practical and specific challenges.
You have been promised inspiration to know what to do and have been given the power to do it (see Doctrine and Covenants 43:15–16 ).
He will help you as you try to recognize and understand the Spirit through diligent scripture study.
He will guide you to people who will receive the message of the Restoration.
He will give you power to deliver the message and to testify of Christ and His gospel.
He will shower His blessings upon you through the gift of the Holy Ghost.
He asks that you remain worthy of this gift and that you ask, seek, and knock (see Doctrine and Covenants 4:7 ; Matthew 7:7–8 ).
We live in the day prophesied by Book of Mormon prophets—a day when people will “contend one with another, and they shall teach with their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance” ( 2 Nephi 28:4 ; see also 3 Nephi 29:6 ; Mormon 9:7–8 ).
Yet many people also yearn for spiritual things.
As you learn to receive personal revelation, you will teach with power and authority (see Alma 17:3 ) because the Holy Ghost gives you power to speak (see 1 Nephi 10:22 ).
You need to seek and receive personal revelation through the Holy Ghost as you help people become baptized and confirmed.
Have faith that you will receive personal revelation to guide you from day to day.
The Holy Ghost will help you in every aspect of your work.
Activity: Personal Study
In Moroni’s concluding testimony, he wrote “a few words by way of exhortation” ( Moroni 10:2 ).
Read Moroni 10 and write in your own words what Moroni exhorts the reader of the Book of Mormon to do.
( Exhort means to encourage strongly or urge someone to do something.) 
Activity: Personal Study
In Moroni’s concluding testimony, he wrote “a few words by way of exhortation” ( Moroni 10:2 ).
Read Moroni 10 and write in your own words what Moroni exhorts the reader of the Book of Mormon to do.
( Exhort means to encourage strongly or urge someone to do something.)
