Helping Others Make Commitments: The Door to Faith and Repentance
Help people qualify for baptism and confirmation by teaching them true doctrine and inviting them to repent and change their lives through making and keeping commitments that build their faith in Jesus Christ.
These commitments prepare people to make and keep sacred covenants.
Elder Jeffrey R.
Holland taught: “The first thing you will do when [someone] tells you he or she had not read and prayed about the Book of Mormon is be devastated!
… Much of the time we are just too casual about all of this.
This is eternal life.
This is the salvation of the children of God.
Eternity hangs in the balance.
… It is the most important path [a person] will ever walk.
But if he or she doesn’t know that, at least you do!
… So take control of this situation.
Teach with power and authority, and then be devastated if the first steps toward commandment-keeping and covenant-keeping have not been successfully begun” (“Making and Keeping Covenants,” missionary satellite broadcast, Apr.
1997).
As you teach people to understand the Restoration of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, you “declare repentance” ( Doctrine and Covenants 15:6 ).
Repentance involves a change of heart and a desire to forsake sin and serve God.
It involves humbly yielding to the Spirit and submitting to God’s will.
It requires that people increase their commitment to live in agreement with God’s will.
Repentance requires a sincere and lasting change of thoughts, desires, habits, and actions.
It is a positive experience that brings joy and peace.
Be bold and loving in helping people understand what they must do to repent.
By inviting people to make commitments, you can effectively raise a voice of both warning and hope.
Scripture Study
What do these scriptures teach about declaring repentance?
Alma 29:1–4
Alma 42:31
Alma 62:45
Doctrine and Covenants 14:8
Doctrine and Covenants 15:6 ; 16:6
Scripture Study
What do these scriptures teach about declaring repentance?
Alma 29:1–4
Alma 42:31
Alma 62:45
Doctrine and Covenants 14:8
Doctrine and Covenants 15:6 ; 16:6
