Follow the Safeguards for Using Technology
The four safeguards outlined below will help you use technology appropriately.
Following these safeguards is an important way for you to “put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil” ( Ephesians 6:11 ).
Be in Tune with Spiritual Promptings
Nephi promised, “If ye will enter in by the way, and receive the Holy Ghost, it will show unto you all things what ye should do” ( 2 Nephi 32:5 ).
Your Heavenly Father has given you two powerful gifts that will help you: moral agency and the gift of the Holy Ghost.
You have the power to choose to follow the guidance of the Holy Ghost.
His guidance is vital in helping you do good while using technology.
It also helps protect you from evil.
Be Focused on Your Missionary Purpose
The Lord said, “If your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things” ( Doctrine and Covenants 88:67 ).
To have your eye single to the glory of God means having your focus completely on God’s purpose, which is also your purpose as a missionary.
Your use of technology should be centered on your purpose.
Turn on your device only after you have identified the missionary purpose for which you will use it.
Then turn it off when that purpose is completed.
You are more likely to encounter inappropriate content on the internet when you are casually surfing the web without a specific purpose in mind.
Be Disciplined
Mormon wrote: “I am a disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
I have been called of him to declare his word among his people, that they might have everlasting life” ( 3 Nephi 5:13 ).
Like Mormon, you are a disciple of Christ.
Serving as a full-time missionary is a special opportunity to deepen your discipleship.
The words disciple and discipline come from the same root word that means “learner” or “pupil.” To be a disciple of Christ means that you seek to follow Him and keep His commandments.
It means that you consistently learn and teach of Christ.
Be disciplined and make righteous choices in how you use technology.
Choose to follow the safeguards.
When you are talking face-to-face with people, do not check messages or answer calls.
Take control of how you use these devices.
Do not let them control you.
The Lord declared, “He that receiveth my law and doeth it, the same is my disciple; and he that saith he receiveth it and doeth it not, the same is not my disciple” ( Doctrine and Covenants 41:5 ).
While no one is perfect, the Lord expects consistent, persistent effort to follow Him.
The beauty of the gospel is that we can be forgiven as we repent—and the Lord wants us to repent without delay (see Doctrine and Covenants 109:21 ).
If you make a mistake, including inappropriate use of technology, repent in that moment and keep trying to live His law.
This is part of being a disciple of Christ.
Be One
The Lord said, “Be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine” ( Doctrine and Covenants 38:27 ).
Help your mission develop a culture of unity, trust, accountability, and compassion so you can strengthen and support one another.
All missionaries should feel comfortable asking for help when needed.
A missionary who is strong in the Spirit can help one who is feeling weak (see Doctrine and Covenants 84:106 ).
If you feel tempted, ask your companion or mission leader for help.
Nearly all challenges associated with the internet or with pornography happen in isolation.
Use devices only when you can see each other’s screens.
Have courage and be accountable to each other.
The Lord has confidence in each missionary He has called, including you.
He has provided companions and leaders to help protect and support you.
Just as Alma supported his companion Amulek, seek to strengthen each other (see Alma 15:18 ).
What Should You Do If You Feel Vulnerable or Susceptible?
Learning to follow these four safeguards requires effort, discipline, and practice.
Even after the safeguards become a natural part of how you think and act, you will have times when you may feel vulnerable or susceptible.
Perhaps you had some poor technology habits before your mission that have been difficult to overcome.
Some missionaries struggled with pornography before their call and may be tempted to fall back into former patterns of behavior.
The principles below will help you live the safeguards and fortify yourself against temptation:
Be aware of your thoughts, feelings, and behaviors.
Understand how they can make you more vulnerable to misusing technology.
Choose to act.
Respond in righteous, productive ways to what you are feeling.
Learn, repent, and improve.
Use your experiences to continue learning and improving.
You do not have to overcome challenges on your own.
Rely on the strength that comes through the Savior’s Atonement and the covenants you have made with Him.
The Lord knows the challenges you face, and He will help you in this great work.
Always remembering the Savior can help you use technology righteously.
Be true to the trust He has given you.
Determine to “walk uprightly before him” ( Alma 53:21 ; see also verse 20 ).
Feeling gratitude for all that He and the Father have done for you will help you make good choices about how you use digital resources.
Your mission is a great opportunity to learn to use technology wisely.
The commitment and good habits you develop during your mission will benefit you for the rest of your life.
