Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Try some of the following suggestions to enhance your study:
Read the scriptures with questions and concerns in mind.
Share what you learn with other missionaries and with those you teach.
Explaining a doctrine or principle will help you remember it and gain clarity.
Study by topic.
Focus on topics that will help you and the people you teach.
Ask yourself, “What is the author saying?
What is the main message?
How does this apply to me?
How might this help someone we are teaching?”
Visualize or draw what you are studying.
For example, imagine what it was like for Ammon to stand before the Lamanite king.
Write the main idea of a passage in a sentence or short paragraph.
Memorize scriptures that explain and support the principles you teach.
Evaluate yourself on the following (1=never, 3=some of the time, and 5=almost always).
I am growing in my faith and coming to know Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ better.
I think about the people I am teaching when I study.
Throughout the day, I think about what I studied in the morning.
As I study, ideas come to my mind that have not occurred to me before.
I record spiritual impressions and ideas in an appropriate place.
I stay awake as I study.
I look forward to personal study.
I look forward to companion study.
Review your responses.
What are you doing well?
How could you improve?
Set one or two goals to improve the quality of your study.
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Read together several of the following passages.
Discuss blessings that come from studying the word of God.
Which passages would best help those you teach?
1 Nephi 10:19
2 Nephi 32:3
Mosiah 1:6–7
Alma 17:2–3 ; 32:42–43 ; 37:44–46 ; 49:30
Doctrine and Covenants 90:24 ; 130:19
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Ask the missionaries to write one or two questions about the gospel from a lesson in chapter 3 .
These questions could be personal or from people they teach.
Invite the missionaries to share their questions with the group.
For each question, discuss the following:
How could answering this question bless the life of the missionary?
How could it bless the lives of the people he or she is teaching?
How could a missionary find the answer?
Divide missionaries into groups, and assign each group to study one of the four safeguards and the accompanying scriptures.
Invite missionaries to share what they have learned and how the safeguards have helped them.
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
Occasionally join missionaries in their companion study.
During interviews or conversations, ask some of the following questions:
What impressions have you had recently in your scripture study?
What chapter or section of Preach My Gospel has helped you most in the past two weeks?
How has it helped you?
What are you doing in your personal study that helps you learn?
In interviews, consider reviewing the safeguards for using technology and asking missionaries what they are learning as they apply them.
Share insights from your personal study.
Share entries from your study journal and your testimony of the importance of gospel study.
