The Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ through Joseph Smith
When the circumstances were right, Heavenly Father once again reached out to His children in love.
He called a young man named Joseph Smith as a prophet.
Through him the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth.
Joseph Smith lived in the United States, which was perhaps the only country to enjoy religious freedom at the time.
It was at a time of great religious excitement in the eastern United States.
His family members were deeply religious and constantly sought for truth.
But many ministers claimed to have the true gospel.
Joseph desired “to know which of all the sects was right” ( Joseph Smith—History 1:18 ).
The Bible taught there was “one Lord, one faith, one baptism” ( Ephesians 4:5 ).
Joseph attended different churches, but he remained confused about which church he should join.
He later wrote:
“So great were the confusion and strife among the different denominations, that it was impossible for a person young as I was … to come to any certain conclusion who was right and who was wrong.
… In the midst of this war of words and tumult of opinions, I often said to myself: What is to be done?
Who of all these parties are right; or, are they all wrong together?
If any one of them be right, which is it, and how shall I know it?” ( Joseph Smith—History 1:8, 10 ).
As Joseph sought truth among the different faiths, he turned to the Bible for guidance.
He read, “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him” ( James 1:5 ).
Because of this passage, Joseph decided to ask God what he should do.
In the spring of 1820 he went to a nearby grove of trees and knelt in prayer.
We have four different accounts of what followed, recorded by him or scribes under his direction (see Gospel Topics essay, “ First Vision Accounts ”).
In one account, he described his experience:
“I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me.
… When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air.
One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other— This is My Beloved Son.
Hear Him!
” ( Joseph Smith—History 1:16–17 ).
In this vision God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to Joseph Smith.
The Savior told Joseph not to join any of the churches, for they “were all wrong” and “all their creeds were an abomination.” He stated, “They draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me, they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof” ( Joseph Smith—History 1:19 ).
Even though many good people believed in Christ and tried to understand and teach His gospel, they did not have the fulness of truth or the priesthood authority to baptize and perform other saving ordinances.
They had inherited a state of apostasy as each generation was influenced by what the previous one passed on, including changes in the doctrine and in ordinances such as baptism.
As God had done with Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, and other prophets, He called Joseph Smith to be a prophet through whom the fulness of the gospel was restored to the earth.
After the appearance of the Father and the Son, other heavenly messengers, or angels, were sent to Joseph Smith and his associate Oliver Cowdery.
John the Baptist appeared and conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the Aaronic Priesthood, which includes the authority to perform the ordinance of baptism.
Peter, James, and John (three of Christ’s original Apostles) appeared and conferred the Melchizedek Priesthood upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, restoring the same authority given to Christ’s Apostles anciently.
With this priesthood authority, Joseph Smith was directed to organize the Church of Jesus Christ again on the earth.
Through him, Jesus Christ called twelve Apostles.
The time in which we live is referred to by Bible prophets as the last days, the latter days, or the dispensation of the fulness of times.
It is the period of time just before the Second Coming of Jesus Christ.
It is the final dispensation.
This is why the Church is named The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
A living prophet directs the Church today.
This prophet, the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is the authorized successor to Joseph Smith.
He and the present Apostles trace their authority to Jesus Christ in an unbroken chain of ordinations through Joseph Smith.
Memorize Joseph Smith—History 1:16–17
Memorize Joseph Smith’s description of seeing the Father and the Son ( Joseph Smith—History 1:16–17 ), and always be ready to describe the First Vision using his own words.
Bear sincere testimony that you know it is true.
Do not hesitate to explain how you came to know of its truth.
Invite your companion to do so as well.
Memorize Joseph Smith—History 1:16–17
Memorize Joseph Smith’s description of seeing the Father and the Son ( Joseph Smith—History 1:16–17 ), and always be ready to describe the First Vision using his own words.
Bear sincere testimony that you know it is true.
Do not hesitate to explain how you came to know of its truth.
Invite your companion to do so as well.
Bear Testimony
An important part of a missionary’s duty is to bear testimony of the current prophet and President of the Church.
Bear Testimony
An important part of a missionary’s duty is to bear testimony of the current prophet and President of the Church.
Scripture Study
2 Nephi 3
Doctrine and Covenants 112:30
Ephesians 1:10
Ephesians 4:5
James 1:5
Scripture Study
2 Nephi 3
Doctrine and Covenants 112:30
Ephesians 1:10
Ephesians 4:5
James 1:5
