The Message of the Restoration: The Foundation of Faith
No matter where you serve or whom you teach, center your teaching on Jesus Christ and the Restoration of His gospel.
As you study the doctrine in the missionary lessons, you will see that we have one message: Jesus is the Christ, our Savior and Redeemer.
Through a modern prophet, Heavenly Father has restored knowledge about His plan for our salvation.
This plan is centered on Jesus Christ.
Through His atoning sacrifice, the Savior makes it possible for all of us to be saved from sin and death and return to Heavenly Father.
Help the people you teach understand the following:
God is our literal Father in Heaven.
He loves us perfectly.
Every person on earth is a child of God and a member of His family.
Heavenly Father provided a plan for us to receive immortality and eternal life, which are His greatest blessings (see Moses 1:39 ).
We have come to earth to learn, grow, and prepare for the fulness of His blessings.
As part of His plan, Heavenly Father has given commandments to guide us during this life and help us return to Him (see, for example, Exodus 20:3–17 ).
In this life, we all sin, and we all die.
Because of Heavenly Father’s love for us, He sent His Son, Jesus Christ, to redeem us from sin and death.
Because of Jesus’s atoning sacrifice, we can be cleansed of our sins as we repent and are baptized and confirmed.
This brings us peace and makes it possible for us to return to God’s presence and receive a fulness of joy.
Because of Jesus’s Resurrection, we will all be resurrected after we die.
This means that each person’s spirit and body will be reunited and live forever.
Throughout biblical history, the Lord revealed His gospel and organized His Church through prophets.
Repeatedly, most people rejected it.
A pattern of falling away from the gospel and the need to restore it began in Old Testament times.
After the Savior’s death and Resurrection, His Apostles led the Church for a time.
Eventually, they died, priesthood authority was lost, and there was another falling away from the Savior’s teachings.
People changed the doctrine and ordinances.
The gospel of Jesus Christ was restored by Heavenly Father through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ appeared to Joseph in the spring of 1820.
Joseph Smith later received priesthood authority and was directed to organize the Church of Jesus Christ again on the earth.
Teach that the Church of Jesus Christ is not just another religion.
Nor is it an American church.
Rather, it is a restoration of the “fulness of [the] gospel” of Jesus Christ ( Doctrine and Covenants 1:23 ).
It will never be taken from the earth again.
The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ bears witness of Jesus Christ and His divine mission as the Savior of the world.
It is also a powerful witness that Jesus Christ restored His gospel and Church through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Invite and help people to read the Book of Mormon and pray about its message.
Trust the remarkable promise in Moroni 10:3–5 .
Encourage people to ask God sincerely and with real intent whether the Book of Mormon is the word of God.
Praying with real intent means being willing to act on the answer that comes from the witness of the Holy Ghost.
That witness becomes the foundation of a person’s faith that Christ has restored His Church.
Help those you teach to seek that spiritual confirmation.
Scripture Study
How should you use the Book of Mormon in missionary work?
1 Nephi 13:39
2 Nephi 29:8–10
Moroni 10:3–5
Doctrine and Covenants 20:5–16 ; 42:12–14
Introduction to the Book of Mormon, last two paragraphs
See also Preach My Gospel , chapter 5
Scripture Study
How should you use the Book of Mormon in missionary work?
1 Nephi 13:39
2 Nephi 29:8–10
Moroni 10:3–5
Doctrine and Covenants 20:5–16 ; 42:12–14
Introduction to the Book of Mormon, last two paragraphs
See also Preach My Gospel , chapter 5
Personal Study
Imagine you are going to write a paragraph about the message of the Restoration on social media or for a local news outlet.
In your study journal, write a title that describes the central message.
Then record your thoughts and feelings about this message.
Include how understanding it better has changed the way you live and the way you view the world around you.
Personal Study
Imagine you are going to write a paragraph about the message of the Restoration on social media or for a local news outlet.
In your study journal, write a title that describes the central message.
Then record your thoughts and feelings about this message.
Include how understanding it better has changed the way you live and the way you view the world around you.
