Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Consider what it means to raise the voice of warning (see Jacob 3:12 ; Doctrine and Covenants 1:4 ; 38:41 ; 63:57–58 ; 88:81 ; 112:5 ; Ezekiel 3:17–21 ; 33:1–12 ).
Write in your own words what it means and how you can do it.
Consider the events in your life that have strengthened your testimony of Joseph Smith and the Restoration.
Record your impressions.
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Select one of the following great missionaries, and read the scriptures listed.
As you read, discuss how this missionary (1) understood and committed himself to his calling, (2) demonstrated his attitude and desire for the work, and (3) helped others accept the gospel.
Alma ( Mosiah 18 )
Ammon, Aaron, and the other sons of Mosiah ( Alma 17–22 ; 23:1–6 ; 26 )
Nephi and Lehi ( Helaman 5 )
Peter ( Acts 2 )
Paul ( Acts 16 )
Select two hymns about the Restoration of the gospel.
Read or sing the hymns.
Discuss the meaning of the words.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite two or three recent converts to share their conversion experiences.
How did they feel about the missionaries?
How did they feel about what the missionaries taught?
What helped them keep commitments?
What most strongly influenced their conversion?
Several days before the meeting, assign several missionaries to ponder selected questions from “Consider This” at the beginning of the chapter.
Ask each missionary to prepare a two- to three-minute talk on the assigned question.
During the district council or zone conference, invite the missionaries to give their talks.
After the talks, discuss what was learned and how it could be used in missionary work.
Divide the missionaries into four groups.
Ask each group to list as many truths, covenants, and ordinances as they can that were restored and revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Have each group share their lists.
Invite missionaries to share how any of the truths revealed through the Restoration have influenced their lives.
Discuss what it means to be a successful missionary.
Invite missionaries to give specific examples.
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
During interviews or in conversation with missionaries, periodically ask them to share with you:
Their testimony of Jesus Christ.
Their testimony of the restored gospel and the mission of Joseph Smith.
Their testimony of the Book of Mormon.
Their thoughts about their purpose as a missionary.
Invite missionaries to record in their study journal what they feel are some of the purposes of their mission.
During an interview or in conversation, ask them to share what they have written.
Send a letter of congratulations to new members.
