Image
The Second Coming, by Harry Anderson
People May Wonder
Who is Jesus Christ?
How can He help me and my family?
What does it mean to have faith in Jesus Christ?
How can having faith in Him bless my life?
What does it mean to repent?
How can I feel God’s peace and forgiveness after I’ve made bad choices?
What is the purpose of baptism?
What is the gift of the Holy Ghost?
What does it mean to endure to the end?
The gospel of Jesus Christ is how we come unto Christ.
It is simple enough that a child can understand it.
This lesson focuses on the gospel and doctrine of Christ, including faith in Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
It also focuses on how the gospel blesses all of God’s children.
The word
gospel
literally means “good news.” The gospel of Jesus Christ is good news because it provides the doctrine—the eternal truth—we need to come unto Him and be saved (see
1 Nephi 15:14
).
The gospel teaches us how to live good, meaningful lives.
The good news of the gospel provides the way for us to be forgiven of sins, be sanctified, and return to God’s presence.
Teaching Insight: The Gospel of Christ and the Doctrine of Christ
The gospel of Jesus Christ includes all the doctrine, principles, laws, commandments, ordinances, and covenants necessary for our salvation and exaltation.
The gospel message is that we can access the saving, redeeming power of Jesus Christ.
We do this by exercising faith in Him, repenting, being baptized, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end (see Articles of Faith 1:4 ).
This is also known as the doctrine of Christ.
Living this doctrine is how we come unto Christ and are saved (see 1 Nephi 15:14 ).
This is powerfully taught in the Book of Mormon (see 2 Nephi 31 ; 32:1–6 ; 3 Nephi 11:31–40 ; 27:13–22 ).
Your purpose is to help people come unto Christ by helping them live His doctrine.
See Guide to the Scriptures, “ Gospel ,” “ Doctrine of Christ ”; Gospel Topics, “ Gospel .”
