Suggestions for Teaching
This section provides a sample outline to help you prepare to teach.
It also includes examples of questions and invitations you might use.
As you prepare to teach, prayerfully consider each person’s situation and spiritual needs.
Decide what will be most helpful to teach.
Prepare to define terms that people might not understand.
Plan according to how much time you will have, remembering to keep lessons brief.
Select scriptures to use as you teach.
The “ Doctrinal Foundation ” section of the lesson includes many helpful scriptures.
Consider which questions to ask as you teach.
Plan invitations to extend that will encourage each person to act.
Emphasize God’s promised blessings, and share your testimony of what you teach.
What You Might Teach People in 15–25 Minutes
Select one or more of the following principles to teach.
The doctrinal foundation for each principle is provided after this outline.
The Divine Mission of Jesus Christ
God sent His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to earth to redeem us from sin and death.
Because of Jesus’s atoning sacrifice, we can be cleansed of our sins and sanctified as we repent.
After Jesus was crucified, He was resurrected.
Because of His Resurrection, we will all be resurrected after we die.
This means that each person’s spirit and body will be reunited, and each of us will live forever in a perfected, resurrected body.
Faith in Jesus Christ
Faith is the first principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Faith in Jesus Christ includes having confidence that He is the Son of God and trusting in Him as our Savior and Redeemer.
Faith in Jesus Christ is a principle of action and power.
We strengthen our faith by praying, studying the scriptures, and obeying the commandments.
Repentance
Faith in Jesus Christ leads us to repent.
Repentance is the process of turning to God and turning away from sin.
As we repent, our actions, desires, and thoughts change to be more in harmony with God’s will.
When we sincerely repent, God forgives us.
Forgiveness is possible because Jesus Christ atoned for our sins.
As we repent, we feel peace as our guilt and sorrow are healed.
Repentance is a lifelong process.
God welcomes us back every time we repent.
He will never give up on us.
Baptism: Our First Covenant with God
Baptism is how we first enter a covenant relationship with God.
Baptism has two parts: baptism by water and by the Spirit.
When we are baptized and confirmed, we are cleansed of our sins, giving us a new start in life.
We are baptized by immersion, following Jesus’s example.
Children are not baptized until they are eight years old.
Children who die before that age are redeemed through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
We partake of the sacrament each week in remembrance of Jesus’s sacrifice and to renew our covenants with God.
The Gift of the Holy Ghost
The Holy Ghost is the third member of the Godhead.
After we are baptized, we receive the gift of the Holy Ghost through the ordinance of confirmation.
When we receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, we can have His companionship throughout our lives if we are faithful.
The Holy Ghost sanctifies us, guides us, comforts us, and helps us know the truth.
Endure to the End
Enduring includes continuing to exercise faith in Christ each day.
We continue to keep our covenants with God, repent, seek the companionship of the Holy Ghost, and partake of the sacrament.
As we faithfully seek to follow Jesus Christ, God promises that we will have eternal life.
The Gospel of Jesus Christ Blesses All of God’s Children
Living the gospel deepens our joys, inspires our actions, and enriches our relationships.
We are most likely to be happy—both as individuals and as families—when we live by the teachings of Jesus Christ.
Through the gospel of Jesus Christ, families are blessed in this life and can be united for eternity and live in the presence of God.
Questions You Might Ask People
The following questions are examples of what you might ask people.
These questions can help you have meaningful conversations and understand a person’s needs and perspective.
What do you know about Jesus Christ?
What does it mean to you to have faith in Jesus Christ?
What changes do you want to make in your life?
What is your understanding of repentance?
What is your understanding of baptism?
What can you do now to prepare for baptism?
How could the Holy Ghost help you in your journey to return to God’s presence?
What is a challenge that you or your family is facing?
May we share some ways the gospel of Jesus Christ could help?
Invitations You Might Extend
Will you ask God in prayer to help you know that what we have taught is true?
(See “ Teaching Insights: Prayer ” in the last section of lesson 1.)
Will you attend church this Sunday to learn more about what we have taught?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and pray to know that it is the word of God?
(You might suggest specific chapters or verses.)
Will you follow Jesus’s example and be baptized?
(See “ The Invitation to Be Baptized and Confirmed ,” which immediately precedes lesson 1.)
May we set a time for our next visit?
