Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Identify a commandment from lesson 4 .
Find and record the scripture references and quotations from latter-day prophets that describe the promised blessings associated with this commandment.
Think of the blessings you have received by obeying this commandment, and write them in your journal.
When you communicate with your family or others, ask how they have been blessed by obeying a specific commandment (for example, keeping the Sabbath day holy, obeying the law of tithing, or keeping a commandment that is difficult for someone you are teaching).
Answer the following questions to help you identify areas where you can improve when extending invitations.
Make plans to improve.
Do the people know that I love them?
Am I confident that they will be blessed by acting on our invitations?
Do I give appropriate time and attention to making daily contact with people to help them keep their commitments?
Do our lesson plans include specific invitations to act?
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Review the invitations in one of the missionary lessons.
For each invitation, answer the following questions:
What blessings has the Lord promised to those who keep this commitment?
How will obeying this principle help people increase their faith and testimony?
How will this commitment help people repent and be more sensitive to the Spirit?
From your planning tools, make a list of people you have contacted in the past two days.
Include those you are teaching and members.
For each person, write the invitations you extended and commitments they made.
Consider what other invitations you could have extended.
Discuss why you were able to obtain commitments from some of these people but not from others.
What will you do to follow up on these invitations?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Discuss effective and creative ideas for daily contact with people you are teaching.
How have missionaries worked with members effectively?
What printed or digital media are useful?
What can you do when people are not home or are too busy to see you?
Discuss ways that missionaries have effectively taught the commandments in lesson 4 .
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
When possible, accompany missionaries as they teach.
Help them focus on helping people make and keep commitments.
Encourage ward priesthood leaders, organization leaders, and members to make daily contact with people the missionaries are teaching—if the people have agreed to this contact.
