Consider This
How can I exercise faith in Christ to find people to teach?
How can we expand our vision and improve our plans for finding people to teach?
How can I grow in my ability and confidence to talk with the people I meet each day?
How can we unite with members in sharing the gospel?
What should we do when we receive referrals?
What are some ideas for finding people to teach that we have not yet tried?
The resurrected Savior told His disciples, “Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost” (
Matthew 28:19
; see also
Mark 16:15
).
The Lord repeated this commission in our day, saying, “Go ye into all the world [and] preach the gospel” (
Doctrine and Covenants 68:8
; see also
50:14
).
Missionary work is finding people, teaching them, and helping them prepare for baptism.
You will fulfill the Lord’s commission to teach His gospel and baptize converts as you “find them that will receive you” (
Doctrine and Covenants 42:8
).
Nothing happens in missionary work until you find someone to teach.
Watch all the time for opportunities to introduce the gospel.
Learn to use the ways that are effective in your area.
It is especially important to work with members in finding.
Work hard to earn their trust.
When members trust missionaries, they are more likely to invite their friends and family members to meet with you.
These people are more likely to be converted unto the Lord, be baptized, and progress on the gospel path.
Finding will happen according to a person’s readiness to hear the gospel.
The timing will be different for each person.
Finding can result from a first-time interaction or from many interactions over an extended time.
Many people have several interactions with the missionaries or Church members before beginning a serious study of the gospel.
Do not hesitate to contact them again.
Your efforts to find may bear fruit after you have been transferred or even after you have finished your mission.
Regardless of the timing or the outcome, the Lord is grateful for your efforts.
This chapter outlines principles and ideas to help you find.
These principles are universal.
However, missionaries and mission leaders may need to adapt them to their circumstances.
