Be Diligent in Finding
Make Finding a Constant Effort
In the early days of the restored Church, the Lord repeatedly instructed a group of brethren to teach His gospel “by the way” as they traveled.
He wanted them to use every opportunity to share the gospel.
(See Doctrine and Covenants 52:9–10, 22–23, 25–27 .)
Apply this instruction to your finding.
Make a diligent effort to find throughout the day.
Plan your finding efforts—and also look for unplanned opportunities.
Finding new people to teach is a constant need.
Seek inspiration and be willing to use a variety of ways.
Focus on the ways that are most effective in your area.
Keep Lines in the Water
Concerning the work of missionaries, President Dallin H.
Oaks said:
“None of us should be like the fisherman who thinks he has been fishing all day when in reality he has spent most of his time getting to and from the water, eating lunch, and fussing with his equipment.
Fishing success is related to how long you have your line in the water, not to how long you are away from the apartment.
Some fishermen are away from home for twelve hours and have their line in the water for ten hours.
Other fishermen are away from home for twelve hours and have their line in the water for only two hours.
This last type may wonder why they do not have the same success as others.
“The same principle applies to missionaries, whom the Master called ‘fishers of men’ [ Matthew 4:19 ].
A missionary’s line should drop into the fishing water the moment he or she leaves the apartment” (seminar for new mission presidents, June 20, 2000).
Elder Quentin L.
Cook expanded on this comparison.
In addition to keeping your “line in the water” for longer periods of time, he taught that missionaries who find people to teach “consistently keep multiple lines in the water.
…
“They identify and contact part-member families.
“They search their [Preach My Gospel app] for people who have been taught in the past to contact by phone and text.
“They offer service to members, people who have been taught in the past, current people they are teaching, and the community at large.
…
“They help members create gospel messages to share on their own … social media platforms.
“They obtain referrals from the people they visit and teach” (“Be Spiritual Pathfinders and Influencers,” missionary devotional, Sept.
10, 2020; emphasis added).
Companion Study
Discuss the following questions:
What are some ways you can keep your “line in the water” longer during the day?
What are some ways you can keep multiple lines in the water as you find people to teach?
What features in the Preach My Gospel app can help you?
How might you use technology to help you keep multiple lines in the water?
Companion Study
Discuss the following questions:
What are some ways you can keep your “line in the water” longer during the day?
What are some ways you can keep multiple lines in the water as you find people to teach?
What features in the Preach My Gospel app can help you?
How might you use technology to help you keep multiple lines in the water?
