The Holy Ghost
The Personage of the Holy Ghost
The Holy Ghost is the third member of the Godhead.
He is a personage of spirit and does not have a body of flesh and bones (see Doctrine and Covenants 130:22 ).
He is the Comforter, who the Savior promised would teach His followers all things and bring to their remembrance what Jesus had taught (see John 14:26 ).
The Power of the Holy Ghost
The witness that comes to sincere seekers of truth before baptism comes through the power of the Holy Ghost.
All people can receive a testimony of Jesus Christ and His restored gospel through the power of the Holy Ghost.
“By the power of the Holy Ghost [we] may know the truth of all things” ( Moroni 10:5 ).
The Gift of the Holy Ghost
The gift of the Holy Ghost is the right to have the constant companionship of the Holy Ghost as we are worthy.
We receive the gift of the Holy Ghost after we are baptized by water.
It is conferred through the ordinance of confirmation.
The Prophet Joseph Smith said: “There is a difference between the Holy Ghost and the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Cornelius received the Holy Ghost before he was baptized, which was the convincing power of God unto him of the truth of the Gospel, but he could not receive the gift of the Holy Ghost until after he was baptized” ( Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith [2007], 97 ).
It is by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost that we are sanctified—made more holy, more complete, more whole, more like God.
It is through the redemption of Christ and the sanctifying power of the Holy Ghost that we can be spiritually born again as we keep the covenants we make with God (see Mosiah 27:25–26 ).
The Holy Spirit of Promise
The Holy Ghost is also referred to as the Holy Spirit of Promise (see Doctrine and Covenants 88:3 ).
In this capacity, the Holy Ghost confirms that the priesthood ordinances we receive and the covenants we make are acceptable to God.
Those who are sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise will receive all that the Father has (see Doctrine and Covenants 76:51–60 ; Ephesians 1:13–14 ; Guide to the Scriptures, “ Holy Spirit of Promise ”).
All ordinances and covenants must be sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise to be valid after this life (see Doctrine and Covenants 132:7, 18–19, 26 ).
That sealing depends on our continued faithfulness.
Gifts of the Spirit
The Lord gives us gifts of the Spirit to bless us and to use in blessing others (see Doctrine and Covenants 46:8–9, 26 ).
For example, missionaries who learn a new language may receive the gift of tongues to give them divine help to teach others in their native language.
Several gifts of the Spirit are described in Moroni 10:8–18 , Doctrine and Covenants 46:11–33 , and 1 Corinthians 12:1–12 .
These are only some of the many gifts of the Spirit.
The Lord may bless us with other gifts depending on our faithfulness, our needs, and the needs of others.
The Savior invites us to earnestly seek spiritual gifts (see Doctrine and Covenants 46:8 ; 1 Corinthians 14:1, 12 ).
These gifts come by prayer, faith, and effort—and according to God’s will.
Personal or Companion Study
In the Bible Dictionary, read “ Holy Ghost ,” “ Light of Christ ,” and “ Spirit, the Holy .” Write a description of the nature and role of the Holy Ghost.
Read Acts 4:1–33 .
How did Peter and John seek spiritual gifts?
How did God answer their prayers?
What can you learn from this experience about your own work?
Personal or Companion Study
In the Bible Dictionary, read “ Holy Ghost ,” “ Light of Christ ,” and “ Spirit, the Holy .” Write a description of the nature and role of the Holy Ghost.
Read Acts 4:1–33 .
How did Peter and John seek spiritual gifts?
How did God answer their prayers?
What can you learn from this experience about your own work?
