Pray with Faith in Jesus Christ
To help others become converted, you need to teach by the power of the Spirit (see Doctrine and Covenants 50:13–14, 17–22 ).
The Lord said, “And the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach” ( Doctrine and Covenants 42:14 ).
As you pray for help in your teaching, the power of the Holy Ghost will carry your teachings “unto the hearts of the children of men” ( 2 Nephi 33:1 ).
As you teach by the Spirit and others receive by the Spirit, you will “understand one another” and be “edified and rejoice together” ( Doctrine and Covenants 50:22 ).
How to Pray
Jesus taught us how to pray (see Matthew 6:9–13 ; 3 Nephi 18:19 ).
Pray sincerely and with real intent to act on the promptings you receive from the Holy Ghost.
Effective prayer requires humble, sustained effort (see Moroni 10:3–4 ; Doctrine and Covenants 8:10 ).
Use language that conveys a loving, worshipful relationship with God.
In English, use scriptural language such as Thee , Thou , Thy , and Thine rather than the more common pronouns you , your , and yours .
Always express gratitude.
A conscious effort to be grateful will help you recognize how merciful God has been in your life.
It will open your heart and mind to inspiration.
Pray “with all the energy of heart” for charity to be bestowed upon you ( Moroni 7:48 ).
Pray for others by name.
Pray for those you are teaching.
Seek inspiration for how you will invite and help them to come unto Christ.
Personal Study
Study the Lord’s prayer in Matthew 6:9–13 .
Ask yourself the following questions, and record impressions in your study journal.
How does your current responsibility as a missionary influence your prayers?
In what ways are your prayers seeking to bless the lives of others?
How are you praying to be able to overcome temptation?
How do you pray for help in fulfilling your spiritual and temporal needs?
How do you give glory to God when you pray?
Personal Study
Study the Lord’s prayer in Matthew 6:9–13 .
Ask yourself the following questions, and record impressions in your study journal.
How does your current responsibility as a missionary influence your prayers?
In what ways are your prayers seeking to bless the lives of others?
How are you praying to be able to overcome temptation?
How do you pray for help in fulfilling your spiritual and temporal needs?
How do you give glory to God when you pray?
When to Pray
When should you pray?
The Lord said, “Search diligently, pray always, and be believing, and all things shall work together for your good” ( Doctrine and Covenants 90:24 ).
Alma said, “Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings, and he will direct thee for good; yea, when thou liest down at night lie down unto the Lord, that he may watch over you in your sleep; and when thou risest in the morning let thy heart be full of thanks unto God” ( Alma 37:37 ; see also 34:17–27 ).
The Lord invites you to reserve quiet, private times to pray: “Enter into thy closet, and … pray to thy Father” ( 3 Nephi 13:6 ; see also verses 7–13 ).
President Gordon B.
Hinckley taught: “Every morning … , missionaries should get on their knees and plead with the Lord to loosen their tongues and speak through them to the blessing of those they will be teaching.
If they will do this, a new light will come into their lives.
There will be greater enthusiasm for the work.
They will come to know that in a very real sense, they are servants of the Lord speaking in His behalf” (“Missionary Service,” First Worldwide Leadership Training Meeting , Jan.
11, 2003, 20).
Trusting God When We Pray
Having faith in God means trusting Him.
This includes trusting His will and His timing in answering your prayers (see Isaiah 55:8–9 ).
President Dallin H.
Oaks taught:
“No matter how strong our faith is, it cannot produce a result contrary to the will of Him in whom we have faith.
Remember that when your prayers do not seem to be answered in the way or at the time you desire.
The exercise of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is always subject to the order of heaven, to the goodness and will and wisdom and timing of the Lord.
When we have that kind of faith and trust in the Lord, we have true security and serenity in our lives” (“ The Atonement and Faith ,” Ensign , Apr.
2010, 30).
Concerning prayers that may seem to go unanswered, President Russell M.
Nelson said:
“I know that feeling!
I know the fears and tears of such moments.
But I also know that our prayers are never ignored.
Our faith is never unappreciated.
I know that an all-wise Heavenly Father’s perspective is much broader than is ours.
While we know of our mortal problems and pain, He knows of our immortal progress and potential.
If we pray to know His will and submit ourselves to it with patience and courage, heavenly healing can take place in His own way and time” (“ Jesus Christ—the Master Healer ,” Ensign or Liahona , Nov.
2005, 86).
