Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Divide a page into two columns.
Label one column “What the Lord Did” and the other column “What Lehi or Nephi Did.” Read the story of the Liahona and the broken bow ( 1 Nephi 16:9–31 ) or the story of Nephi building a ship ( 1 Nephi 17:7–16 ; 18:1–6 ).
List events from the story in the appropriate columns.
Consider what the story can teach you about the nature of inspiration.
Look through your journal and find occasions when you have been led by the Spirit or have experienced a gift of the Spirit.
Think about when, where, and why these experiences happened.
How was the Lord’s hand manifest?
How did you feel?
Remembering these experiences can help you recognize the Spirit.
Study Alma 33:1–12 and Alma 34:17–31 .
What questions were Alma and Amulek answering?
(Review Alma 33:1–2 .) How did they answer these questions?
What assurances did they give?
The Lord has promised that the Spirit will guide us in many important ways.
As you read the following passages, identify aspects of your work that require the guidance of the Spirit.
What do the principles in the following scriptures mean for your personal and companion study?
for district council meetings, zone conferences, baptismal services, and other meetings?
Praying
3 Nephi 19:24
Romans 8:26
Conducting meetings
Moroni 6:9
Doctrine and Covenants 20:45 ; 46:2
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Talk about the prayers you offer as companions.
Are they guided by the Holy Ghost?
How have you received answers to your prayers as a companionship?
When you pray as companions, do you:
Believe that God will give you what you ask for in righteousness and according to His will?
Acknowledge and give thanks for answers to your prayers?
Pray for people by name and consider their needs?
Pray for each other and for the Spirit to guide you?
Recognize the answers to your prayers?
Pray with a commitment to act on the promptings you receive?
Discuss how you will seek the Spirit more earnestly.
Discuss the different ways that people describe the influence of the Holy Ghost.
Keep a record in your study journal of comments that those you teach have made about their experiences with the Spirit.
How can you help others recognize this sacred influence?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
As appropriate, have missionaries share a story or experience they heard in a recent testimony meeting, teaching experience, or other setting.
The spiritual stories and experiences other people tell can help you develop faith and recognize that the Spirit’s influence is widely and frequently manifest.
Ask the missionaries to give talks about the mission and power of the Holy Ghost.
Discuss how expressing gratitude helps you see the small but very significant ways the Lord blesses you (see Ether 3:5 ; Doctrine and Covenants 59:21 ).
Discuss ways to express gratitude.
Consider asking a new member to talk about how he or she was influenced by the Spirit when learning about the Church.
Ask the person to share only experiences that he or she feels are appropriate.
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
You might ask missionaries to include appropriate spiritual experiences in their weekly letter to you.
In interviews or in conversations, occasionally ask missionaries about their morning and evening prayers.
If needed, counsel with them about how to make their prayers more meaningful.
Ask missionaries how they help those they teach to feel and recognize the Spirit.
