Suggestions for Teaching
This section provides a sample outline to help you prepare to teach.
It also includes examples of questions and invitations you might use.
As you prepare to teach, prayerfully consider each person’s situation and spiritual needs.
Decide what will be most helpful to teach.
Prepare to define terms that people might not understand.
Plan according to how much time you will have, remembering to keep lessons brief.
Select scriptures to use as you teach.
The “ Doctrinal Foundation ” section of the lesson includes many helpful scriptures.
Consider which questions to ask as you teach.
Plan invitations to extend that will encourage each person to act.
Emphasize God’s promised blessings, and share your testimony of what you teach.
What You Might Teach People in 15–25 Minutes
Select one or more of the following principles to teach.
The doctrinal foundation for each principle is provided after this outline.
God Is Our Loving Heavenly Father
God is our Heavenly Father, and we are His children.
He created us in His image.
God knows us personally and loves us.
God has a glorified, perfected body of flesh and bones.
God wants to bless us with peace and a fulness of joy that will last for eternity.
Because God loves us, He sent His Son, Jesus Christ, to redeem us from sin and death.
God Reveals the Gospel through Prophets in Every Dispensation
God calls prophets to be His representatives on earth.
Anciently, God called prophets such as Adam, Noah, Abraham, and Moses.
A living prophet receives revelation from God to teach and lead us today.
Jesus Christ’s Earthly Ministry and Atonement
Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
During His earthly ministry, Jesus taught His gospel and established His Church.
Jesus called twelve Apostles and gave them authority to lead His Church.
At the end of His life, Jesus atoned for our sins by His suffering in the Garden of Gethsemane and during the Crucifixion.
After Jesus’s death, He was resurrected.
Because of Jesus’s atoning sacrifice, we can be forgiven and cleansed of our sins as we repent.
This brings us peace and makes it possible for us to return to God’s presence and receive a fulness of joy.
Because of Jesus’s Resurrection, we will all be resurrected after we die.
This means that each person’s spirit and body will be reunited and live forever.
The Falling Away
After Jesus’s Apostles died, there was a widespread falling away from the gospel and Church of Jesus Christ.
During this time, people changed many gospel teachings.
People also changed priesthood ordinances, such as baptism.
Priesthood authority and the Church that Jesus had established were no longer on the earth.
The Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ through Joseph Smith
Joseph Smith sought to know which church was God’s true Church so he could join it.
Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ appeared to Him in 1820.
This event is called the First Vision.
God called Joseph Smith to be a prophet, just as He had called prophets in earlier times.
The gospel of Jesus Christ was restored through Joseph Smith.
Other heavenly messengers restored the priesthood, and Joseph was authorized to organize the Church of Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ continues to lead His Church today through living prophets and apostles.
The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ
The Book of Mormon is a volume of scripture written in ancient times by prophets in the Americas.
Joseph Smith translated it by the gift and power of God.
With the Bible, the Book of Mormon provides a witness of Jesus’s ministry, teachings, and mission as our Savior.
We can get nearer to God by reading the Book of Mormon and abiding by its precepts.
We can know that the Book of Mormon is the word of God by reading it, pondering it, and praying about it.
This process will also help us come to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet.
Pray to Know the Truth through the Holy Ghost
Prayer is a two-way communication between God and His children.
Through sincere prayer, we can know that the message of the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ is true.
As we pray, the Holy Ghost teaches and confirms truth to us.
Questions You Might Ask People
The following questions are examples of what you might ask people.
These questions can help you have meaningful conversations and understand a person’s needs and perspective.
What do you believe about God?
How would feeling closer to God help you?
What do you know about Jesus Christ?
How have His life and teachings influenced you?
How do you find reliable answers in today’s confusing world?
How would it help you to know that there is a living prophet on the earth today?
Have you heard of the Book of Mormon?
May we share why it is important?
Would you share your beliefs about prayer?
May we share our beliefs about prayer?
Invitations You Might Extend
Will you ask God in prayer to help you know that what we have taught is true?
(See “ Teaching Insights: Prayer ” in the last section of this lesson.)
Will you attend church this Sunday to learn more about what we have taught?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and pray to know that it is the word of God?
(You might suggest specific chapters or verses.)
Will you follow Jesus’s example and be baptized?
(See “ The Invitation to Be Baptized and Confirmed ,” which immediately precedes this lesson.)
May we set a time for our next visit?
