Your Commission to Teach the Restored Gospel of Jesus Christ
You are surrounded by people.
You pass them on the street, visit them in their homes, and travel among them.
They are all children of God, your brothers and sisters.
God loves them just as He loves you.
Many of these people are searching for purpose in life.
They are concerned for their future and their families.
They need the sense of belonging that comes from the knowledge that they are children of God, members of His eternal family.
They want to feel secure in a world of changing values.
They want “peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come” ( Doctrine and Covenants 59:23 ), but they are “kept from the truth because they know not where to find it” ( Doctrine and Covenants 123:12 ).
The gospel of Jesus Christ as restored by the Savior through the Prophet Joseph Smith will bless them and their families, meet their spiritual needs, and help them fulfill their deepest desires.
Although they may not know why, they need relief from feelings of loneliness and guilt that come from sin.
They need to experience the joy of redemption by receiving forgiveness of their sins and enjoying the gift of the Holy Ghost.
As an authorized representative of Jesus Christ, you can teach people with power and authority that “redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah,” and that no one “can dwell in the presence of God, save it be through the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah” ( 2 Nephi 2:6, 8 ).
As people come to accept the restored gospel of Jesus Christ and receive the ordinances of baptism and confirmation by priesthood authority, they can be assured that they “are not cast off forever” (Book of Mormon, title page).
As your understanding of the Savior’s sacrifice, also known as the Atonement of Jesus Christ, grows, your desire to share the gospel will increase.
You will feel, as Lehi did, the “great … importance to make these things known unto the inhabitants of the earth” ( 2 Nephi 2:8 ).
You are called to represent Jesus Christ in helping people become clean from their sins and find greater happiness and joy.
You do this by inviting them to come unto Jesus Christ and become converted to His restored gospel.
President Dallin H.
Oaks taught: “We have also said much about the inspired summary of our work: ‘teach repentance and baptize converts.’ But converts to what?
To Jesus Christ our Savior and our Redeemer, to His doctrine, to His restored gospel, to His authority, to His name.
Conversion to the Lord Jesus Christ and His gospel should precede conversion to and membership in His Church.
… Seek conversion to Jesus Christ and His gospel” (“Closing Remarks” [address given at the seminar for new mission presidents, June 28, 2017], 6, Church History Library, Salt Lake City).
To come to the Savior, people must have faith in Him unto repentance—making the necessary changes to bring their life into agreement with His teachings.
You can help people develop such faith by teaching them the restored gospel by the Spirit and inviting them to commit to live according to its teachings.
Keeping this commitment prepares them for the covenant of baptism and confirmation and the precious gift of the Holy Ghost.
They are to put off the “natural man” and become a Saint “through the atonement of Christ the Lord” ( Mosiah 3:19 ).
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Examine the picture of the tree of life on this page as you study the vision of the tree of life found in 1 Nephi 8 and 11 .
In this vision, the tree of life symbolizes the love of God (see 1 Nephi 11:21–22 ).
What did Lehi desire after he had eaten the fruit?
(See 1 Nephi 8:10–18 .)
In the vision, what did the people need to do to be able to partake of the fruit?
What do we need to do to receive all the blessings of the Savior’s Atonement?
In what ways do commitments and covenants help us partake of these blessings?
As a missionary, what is your duty in helping others find and partake of the fruits of the gospel?
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Examine the picture of the tree of life on this page as you study the vision of the tree of life found in 1 Nephi 8 and 11 .
In this vision, the tree of life symbolizes the love of God (see 1 Nephi 11:21–22 ).
What did Lehi desire after he had eaten the fruit?
(See 1 Nephi 8:10–18 .)
In the vision, what did the people need to do to be able to partake of the fruit?
What do we need to do to receive all the blessings of the Savior’s Atonement?
In what ways do commitments and covenants help us partake of these blessings?
As a missionary, what is your duty in helping others find and partake of the fruits of the gospel?
