The Message of the Restoration: The Foundation of Faith
No matter where you serve or whom you teach, center your teaching on the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
“The Lord will bless you as you teach the message of the Restoration to a world that desperately needs the gospel of Jesus Christ” (“Statement on Missionary Work,” First Presidency letter, Dec.
11, 2002).
As you study the doctrine in the missionary lessons, you will come to see that we have one message: Through a modern prophet, God has restored knowledge about the plan of salvation, which is centered on the Atonement of Jesus Christ and is fulfilled by living the principles and ordinances of the gospel.
Make sure that everyone you teach clearly understands the following:
God is our literal Father in Heaven.
He loves us.
Every person on earth is a child of God and a member of God’s family.
Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is our Savior and Redeemer.
Our loving Father in Heaven reached out to His children throughout biblical history by revealing His gospel to prophets.
Sadly, many people rejected that gospel; even some of those who accepted it changed the doctrine and ordinances and fell into unbelief and apostasy.
Our Father in Heaven sent His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to earth.
The Savior performed miracles and taught His gospel.
He accomplished the Atonement and was resurrected.
Beginning with the First Vision, God has again reached out in love to His children.
He restored the gospel of Jesus Christ and His priesthood authority and organized His Church on the earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Because of the Savior’s Resurrection, all people will be resurrected and saved, or gain salvation, from physical death.
This is an unconditional gift.
People may also be saved, or gain salvation, from individual spiritual death through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, by their faith in Him, by living in obedience to the laws and ordinances of His gospel, and by serving Him.
In addition to gaining salvation, we can also qualify for exaltation by being true to covenants made with God in the holy temple (see 2 Nephi 31:14–20 ).
The Book of Mormon is convincing evidence of the restored gospel.
As you help those you are teaching see the pattern of apostasy and restoration, they will be prepared to understand the great need for the latter-day Restoration.
They will see the need to accept the restored gospel, receive the ordinances of salvation by the authority of the restored priesthood, and follow the way to eternal life.
Help people recognize that the Church is not just another religion, nor is it an American church.
Rather, it is a restoration of the “fulness of [the] gospel” ( Doctrine and Covenants 1:23 ), the same as was revealed and taught from the beginning.
The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ is convincing evidence that Joseph Smith was a prophet and that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored.
It is the keystone of our religion, the most powerful resource for teaching this message.
Some important truths restored through Joseph Smith include the knowledge that God is our Father and that we are His spirit children, that we lived with Him before birth, and that families can be exalted and live together forever in God’s presence through Christ’s Atonement by obeying the laws and ordinances of the gospel.
The Book of Mormon is evidence of the love of God for His children.
It bears witness of Jesus Christ and His divine calling as Savior of the world.
It shows that God speaks to His children.
As you teach and testify, invite people to read the Book of Mormon and pray about its message.
Each person you teach must decide whether to accept the Book of Mormon as revelation from God.
Trust the remarkable promise in Moroni 10:3–5 .
Do all you can to persuade people to read the book, to help them understand it, and to motivate them to ask God sincerely whether it is true.
The witness of the Holy Ghost becomes the cornerstone of their faith that Christ has restored His Church.
Help those you teach to receive that spiritual confirmation.
Scripture Study
How should you use the Book of Mormon in your missionary work?
1 Nephi 13:39
2 Nephi 29:8–10
Moroni 10:3–5
Doctrine and Covenants 20:5–16
Doctrine and Covenants 42:12–14
Scripture Study
How should you use the Book of Mormon in your missionary work?
1 Nephi 13:39
2 Nephi 29:8–10
Moroni 10:3–5
Doctrine and Covenants 20:5–16
Doctrine and Covenants 42:12–14
Activity: Personal Study
Imagine that you are going to write a paragraph about the message of the Restoration on social media or for a local newspaper.
In your study journal write a title that describes the central message.
Then record your thoughts and feelings about this message, including how understanding it better has changed the way you live and the way you view the world around you.
Activity: Personal Study
Imagine that you are going to write a paragraph about the message of the Restoration on social media or for a local newspaper.
In your study journal write a title that describes the central message.
Then record your thoughts and feelings about this message, including how understanding it better has changed the way you live and the way you view the world around you.
