Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Prepare a two-minute talk on one of the questions at the beginning of this chapter.
Be prepared to share your talk with your companion or with other missionaries in a district council.
Ask recent converts to tell their conversion stories.
What helped them gain “faith unto repentance” ( Alma 34:17 )?
Why did they decide to be baptized and confirmed?
What was it like for them to become new members of the Church?
How could missionaries have served them better?
Consider what it means to raise the voice of warning (see Jacob 3:12 ; Doctrine and Covenants 1:4 ; 38:41 ; 63:57–58 ; 88:81 ; 112:5 ; Ezekiel 3:17–21 ; 33:1–12 ).
Write in your own words what it means and how you can go about doing it.
Read Mormon 8 and Moroni 1 and 10.
As you read, ask yourself, “What was Moroni’s hope for our day?
What did he want us to do with the Book of Mormon?
What would I say to Moroni if I had the chance?” Record your thoughts in your study journal.
Consider the events in your life that have strengthened your testimony of Joseph Smith and the Restoration.
Then write an answer to this question: What has helped you know that Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ appeared to Joseph Smith?
Companion Study
Share with each other your answers to the questions from “Consider This” at the beginning of the chapter.
Share with each other what your hopes and desires were for your mission when you received your mission call.
To what extent does your experience thus far meet your expectations?
How can you meet these expectations more fully?
Read and discuss “ Ministry ” in the Bible Dictionary.
Select one of the following great missionaries, and read the references listed.
As you read, discuss how this missionary (1) understood and committed himself to his calling, (2) demonstrated his attitude and desire for the work, and (3) helped others accept the gospel.
Alma ( Mosiah 18 )
Aaron ( Alma 22 ; 23:1–6 )
Nephi and Lehi ( Helaman 5 )
Peter ( Acts 2 )
Paul ( Acts 16 )
In the hymnbook, select two hymns under the topic “ Restoration of the Gospel ” (see page 424).
Read or sing the hymns.
Discuss the meaning of the words.
Read together “ Faith ,” “ Repentance ,” “ Baptism ,” and “ Holy Ghost ” in the Bible Dictionary.
Read and discuss all the scripture references in each entry.
Read together “ Dispensations ” in the Bible Dictionary.
Also read and discuss Doctrine and Covenants 136:37 .
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite two or three recent converts to share their conversion experiences.
How did they feel about the missionaries?
about what the missionaries taught?
about keeping commitments?
What most strongly influenced their conversion?
Invite a priesthood leader to talk to the missionaries about the opportunities and difficulties of building the Church in your area.
Read Alma 18 and discuss these questions: What were Lamoni’s feelings at the beginning of the story?
How did they change?
What feelings must a person have in order to receive the blessings of the gospel?
Read Alma 34:15–16 , and compare it with Lamoni’s story.
How does Christ’s Atonement enable us to obtain mercy?
Discuss what it means to be a successful missionary.
Invite missionaries to give specific examples of success.
Divide the missionaries into three groups.
Assign one group to read Acts 2:36–38 (Peter), another group to read Acts 16:25–33 (Paul), and the final group to read Mosiah 18:8–11 (Alma).
Ask each group to answer the question, “What did this missionary do to help others increase in faith in Christ, repent, and receive baptism and confirmation?” Discuss what the missionaries learn from these stories that could help them exercise faith when inviting people to repent, be baptized, and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Several days before the meeting, assign several missionaries to ponder selected questions from “Consider This” at the beginning of the chapter.
Ask each missionary to prepare a two- to three-minute talk on his or her assigned question.
During the district council or zone conference, allow the missionaries to give their talks.
Following the talks, discuss what they learned and how they could use it in their missionary work.
Divide the missionaries into four groups.
Ask each group to list as many truths, covenants, and ordinances as they can that were restored and revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Have each group share their results.
Invite missionaries to share how any of the truths revealed through the Restoration have influenced their lives.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
During interviews or in conversation, periodically ask missionaries to share with you:
Their testimony of Jesus Christ.
Their testimony of the restored gospel and the mission of Joseph Smith.
Their testimony of the Book of Mormon.
Their thoughts about their purpose as a missionary.
Invite missionaries to record in their study journal what they feel is the purpose of their mission.
During an interview or in conversation, ask them to share what they have written.
Send a letter of congratulations to new members.
