Studying and Preparing to Teach the Lessons
The missionary lessons (found in chapter 3 ) contain the baptismal interview questions, commitments, and doctrine that you are to teach.
In the lessons you will also find useful ideas for teaching.
However, the lessons do not tell you everything to say—or how to say it.
Instead, you are responsible to thoroughly understand the lessons and teach by the Spirit in your own words.
Teach so that others will strengthen their faith in Jesus Christ, desire to repent, and enter into covenants with God.
Effective teachers are always working to improve their knowledge and abilities.
Although you will not teach all you know about the doctrine, your increased knowledge will build your testimony and your ability to teach with spiritual power.
You will know you are using the lessons as intended when you:
Seek and follow the Spirit as you prepare and teach the lessons.
Strive to consistently study, treasure up, and apply the doctrine in your life.
Work with your companion to make specific plans for each person you teach.
Focus on the central messages and doctrine as you teach.
Adjust the order, length, and pace of the lessons to meet the needs of those you teach.
Teach often from the scriptures with clarity and conviction.
Bear testimony frequently.
Help others make and keep commitments that lead to baptism and confirmation.
Doing these things will enable you to help others gain a testimony of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
As you begin your mission, you will need to learn the organization of the message and acquire the necessary teaching skills.
As you gain experience, you will want to deepen your knowledge and enhance your teaching ability.
As you prepare for teaching appointments, you will want to have a lesson plan that enables you to teach by the Spirit and help others make and keep commitments.
The guidelines below are suggestions that you can apply throughout your mission.
However, do not feel that you must use every guideline in every situation.
Instead, apply these guidelines to meet your needs and as you are guided by the Spirit.
If you are learning a new language, apply these guidelines in your native language first and then in your mission language.
Focus on commitments and baptismal interview questions.
Teach so that people will make commitments and prepare for baptism and confirmation.
Make sure you understand the baptismal interview questions and commitments for each lesson.
Learn what someone should know, feel, and do because of your teaching.
Work with your companion to explain these principles in your own words with clarity and power.
Learn and apply the doctrine.
The doctrine is the foundation of the lesson.
Prayerfully study the scriptures, lessons, and other approved resources to gain a solid understanding of the doctrine.
Search for material that supports the doctrine of the lessons.
Commit to memory the sequence of doctrinal principles.
Apply what you learn.
Record what you learn in your study journal.
Share what you learn with other missionaries.
Organize and summarize what to teach.
To prepare to teach the doctrine clearly and with spiritual power, organize and summarize what you will teach into a lesson plan.
Focus on the doctrine, baptismal interview questions, and commitments of the lessons.
Enhance your lesson plan with scriptures, questions, examples, and appropriate and approved media.
These should vary according to the length of your teaching appointments.
You should not create an entirely new lesson plan for each person you teach, but you should continually refine your lesson plans and modify them to meet specific needs.
When you are first creating a lesson plan, strive to be simple and brief.
Enhance your lesson plans as you gain experience.
Focus on needs.
While the doctrine of the gospel applies to everyone, you should adjust your teaching approach to meet the needs of those you teach.
As you study doctrine and create lesson plans, identify areas where you can adjust your approach to meet potential needs.
Review and refine these adjustments as you prepare for specific appointments.
Identify the invitations you will extend.
Focus on the ultimate goal of helping those you teach receive the restored gospel of Jesus Christ through baptism and confirmation.
Prepare to answer questions.
As a missionary, you will hear many questions.
Record these questions in your study journal.
Search the scriptures and other approved resources for answers.
Pray for understanding.
Record the answers in your study journal.
Review what you find with other missionaries.
Add frequent questions and their answers to your study journal for reference.
Teach the lesson.
Teaching is a powerful opportunity to improve your knowledge and ability.
As you learn the doctrine and organize lesson plans, teach your companion and other missionaries.
Try new explanations, approaches, experiences, questions, and ways to invite others to make commitments.
Ask for ideas and suggestions.
Evaluate your teaching.
After every teaching situation, evaluate the experience.
Did you focus on the doctrine?
Is their faith in Christ and His Atonement growing?
Did you invite them to repent and to make and keep commitments?
Did you teach them how to pray and study the scriptures?
Are they praying, studying the Book of Mormon, and attending church?
Did you work to prepare them for baptism and confirmation?
Did you use effective questions?
Did you share your testimony?
Did you ask for referrals?
Adjust your lesson plans as you improve.
As you learn the lessons, continue seeking a deep knowledge of the doctrine.
Actively work to teach with greater power.
As you study in prayer and faith, your knowledge and testimony will grow.
However, do not try to teach all that you know.
Teach the message clearly, simply, and based on individual needs, following the Spirit to teach “that portion that shall be meted unto every man” ( Doctrine and Covenants 84:85 ).
Defining Words
We have a powerful message with a unique vocabulary.
Just as a physician speaks differently in the family waiting room than in the operating room, so too must you learn to speak so that those who are unfamiliar with our message can understand what you are teaching.
To prepare to help others understand unfamiliar words, study the list of key definitions and terms in the “Ideas for Teaching” section of each applicable lesson.
Become familiar with the definitions provided.
Use approved resources to find definitions for other words.
Write these definitions in your study journal.
Share the definitions with your companion and others to see if you understand.
If the definitions are unclear to others, revise your definitions based on the material you have studied.
As you teach, seek to discern whether a word or principle is new to the person you are teaching.
Take time to explain unfamiliar words or principles.
Remember to teach for understanding so that you and those you teach “are edified and rejoice together” ( Doctrine and Covenants 50:22 ).
Activity: Personal Study
Turn to the lesson “ The Message of the Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ ,” located in chapter 3.
Read the list of key definitions in the “Ideas for Teaching” section.
Locate three other words in the lesson that might be unfamiliar to those you teach.
Follow the suggestions given above in creating a definition for each.
Activity: Personal Study
Turn to the lesson “ The Message of the Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ ,” located in chapter 3.
Read the list of key definitions in the “Ideas for Teaching” section.
Locate three other words in the lesson that might be unfamiliar to those you teach.
Follow the suggestions given above in creating a definition for each.
