Study Ideas and Suggestions
Each of the ideas and suggestions in this section can make your study time more rewarding and spiritually uplifting.
Consider the following as you plan your study:
Always begin with a prayer.
Plan study activities that will build your faith in the Savior and use your time productively.
Plan your study around people, their needs, and preparing them for baptism, confirmation, and enduring to the end.
Note your study plans in your daily planner.
Plan your study by asking: What will I be teaching today?
How can I plan my study to best help those I teach?
Which ideas and suggestions from this section will I incorporate in my study?
As you plan your study activities, experiment with some of the ideas and suggestions that follow or with additional ideas you learn from others.
Apply and Live What You Learn
“Liken” what you learn to yourself (see 1 Nephi 19:23 ).
Set goals to live what you are learning.
Substitute your name in a verse of scripture to personalize it.
Ask yourself, “How should I change as a result of what I have learned?” Set appropriate goals.
Activity: Personal Study
Select one of the following references.
As you read and ponder your chosen passage, identify two or three ways you can apply it in your life.
2 Nephi 31
Alma 32:26–43
Moroni 7:32–48
Evaluate how well you live the principles that you teach.
Choose one way in which you can improve, and make plans to do so.
Activity: Personal Study
Select one of the following references.
As you read and ponder your chosen passage, identify two or three ways you can apply it in your life.
2 Nephi 31
Alma 32:26–43
Moroni 7:32–48
Evaluate how well you live the principles that you teach.
Choose one way in which you can improve, and make plans to do so.
Search, Ponder, and Remember
Be physically and mentally alert as you study.
Study at a desk or table where you can write (not lying down or sitting on your bed), and organize your study materials.
Pray and ask for understanding.
Study by topic.
Ask yourself, “What is the author saying?
What is the central message?
How does this apply to me?
How might this help a family or person we are teaching?”
Visualize what you are studying.
For example, imagine what it was like for Ammon to stand before the Lamanite king.
Study the words of the living prophets (in the Gospel Library and other approved resources).
Write in your study journal questions you have, and use the scriptures, words of latter-day prophets, and other study resources to find answers.
A single verse of scripture may contain several ideas.
Underline and mark words or phrases so that you distinguish between ideas in a single verse.
Share what you learn with other missionaries.
You can learn much by explaining a doctrine or principle to another person.
Mark your scriptures and make notes in them.
In the margins write scripture references that clarify the passages you are studying.
Memorize scripture passages that explain and support the principles you teach.
Use Study Resources
Use the study aids in the LDS edition of the scriptures ( Topical Guide , Bible Dictionary , Joseph Smith Translation, index to the triple combination, chapter headings, footnotes, and maps).
Use the missionary lessons and other approved Church resources such as Gospel Library, Gospel Topics , and Gospel Topics essays .
Review chapter headings in the scriptures.
This review will give you ideas about what to look for in the chapter.
Use your study journal to record and organize what you are learning.
Frequently review the thoughts you have recorded.
Organize your journal so that you can easily recall what you have learned.
Use this manual as a workbook.
Use annotations (when using the digital version) or the space provided in the margins for notes to record impressions and ideas.
Study the scripture passages listed in this manual.
Record in this manual or your study journal other scripture passages you have found.
See the Big Picture
Get an overview, either by reading the book, chapter, or passage quickly or by reviewing headings.
Seek to understand the context and background.
Try writing the main idea of the passage in a sentence or short paragraph.
Use the Bible and Church history maps to learn geography, distances, climate, and terrain.
Review the sequence of events and the culture.
Read the historical information in the Bible Dictionary and the chapter and section summaries.
Activity: Personal Study
Read the chapter summaries of the books below and write an outline that describes the setting, main events, and main doctrine of each book.
1 Nephi
Moses
Acts
Activity: Personal Study
Read the chapter summaries of the books below and write an outline that describes the setting, main events, and main doctrine of each book.
1 Nephi
Moses
Acts
Explore the Details
Look for key words and make sure you understand what they mean.
Use the footnotes, digital resources in Gospel Library, the Guide to the Scriptures , the Bible Dictionary , or another dictionary for definitions.
Examine surrounding words or phrases for clues to what the key words mean.
Look for connecting words, such as therefore, and again, thus, wherefore, and others.
Then see how the preceding and following passages relate to each other.
Use the Topical Guide or Guide to the Scriptures to see how the same word is used in other contexts or how other prophets use the same word.
Look for unfamiliar words or phrases and make sure you understand them.
Marking Scriptures
Marking or annotating your scriptures can assist you in thinking deeply about a passage or doctrine of the gospel.
You can mark your scriptures in many ways.
Find a method that works for you.
Below are some guidelines for marking a printed version of the scriptures.
Use pencils or colored markers.
Avoid using pens that bleed through the paper.
Shade, underline, bracket, or outline part of a verse, an entire verse, or a group of verses.
Avoid excessive marking.
The benefit is lost if you cannot understand your markings because you have made too many notes, lines, and colors.
Underline only a few key words to highlight the verse, section, or chapter.
Circle or underline key words, and then use straight lines to link closely related words.
When a series of points in a verse or passage are related, number the points in the margin or text.
Use the footnotes as a resource for marking and interpreting the scriptures.
Place a symbol (such as a check mark) in the margin for key verses you feel are critical to remember.
Marking your scriptures should help you focus on applying what you learn and on teaching others.
Develop an approach that is consistent and helps you accomplish your purpose as a missionary.
Activity: Personal Study
Which suggestions have you not yet tried?
Identify one suggestion from “ Study Ideas and Suggestions ” to try during your next personal or companion study session.
Activity: Personal Study
Which suggestions have you not yet tried?
Identify one suggestion from “ Study Ideas and Suggestions ” to try during your next personal or companion study session.
Remember This
Pursuing the desire to learn is important to your salvation and your success as a missionary.
You learn the gospel by study, faith, and the power of the Holy Ghost.
Learning is a joy and brings many blessings.
Daily personal and companion study strengthens your faith and your ability to teach by the Spirit.
Use a variety of study methods that make the experience meaningful and enjoyable.
Remember This
Pursuing the desire to learn is important to your salvation and your success as a missionary.
You learn the gospel by study, faith, and the power of the Holy Ghost.
Learning is a joy and brings many blessings.
Daily personal and companion study strengthens your faith and your ability to teach by the Spirit.
Use a variety of study methods that make the experience meaningful and enjoyable.
