Create a Language Study Plan
A language study plan helps both new and experienced missionaries focus on what they can do each day to improve their ability to speak the mission language.
Your plan will include what you will do during your language study time and what you will do throughout the day.
As needed, use some of your language study time to create or adjust your study plan.
Then during your language study time, learn the language needed for the day’s activities.
The following guidelines will help you in creating your own language learning plan:
Set goals.
Weekly and daily goals will help you learn your mission language.
Focus your goals on improving your ability to communicate and teach during scheduled activities, such as teaching appointments, finding opportunities, and ward council meetings.
Review your progress in achieving your language goals.
Ask yourself what you can do to communicate with greater clarity and power during your scheduled activities.
Select which tools to use.
Review the following language tools and determine which you can use to achieve your goals:
The standard works in your mission language.
The lessons in your mission language.
A pocket-size dictionary.
A small grammar book.
MTC language materials.
Note cards.
A pocket notebook.
Approved apps for language learning.
Other Church materials in your mission language.
Memorize vocabulary and phrases.
Identify vocabulary and phrases that will help you accomplish your goals.
Your language plan might include the following ideas:
Identify vocabulary and phrases in the lessons, brochures, scriptures, and other Church publications that you can use in teaching.
Record words or phrases you do not know in a notebook.
Carry a small dictionary and look up these words.
Carry note cards to study throughout the day.
Write a word or phrase on one side and the definition on the opposite side.
Set aside the words you learn.
Work on the remaining words until you know them all.
Use new words and phrases in sentences during personal study, teaching, and throughout the day.
Practice pronunciation by saying new words and phrases out loud.
Memorize key scriptures in the mission language.
Memorize simple statements from the lessons or approved resources that convey key gospel principles.
Find other ways to express these ideas.
Learn grammar.
Use your language tools to identify grammar principles that will help you achieve your goals.
If needed, ask your companion, an experienced missionary, or a member for help.
Consider incorporating some of the following ideas:
Use the grammar text you received at the missionary training center or a text approved by your mission president to help you understand the grammar and sentence patterns found in the lessons, approved resources, and scriptures.
Prepare sentences to use in your scheduled activities that apply these grammar principles.
Practice speaking and writing the sentences.
Pay attention to word order in the language and to words and their parts.
Look for opportunities to practice and apply the grammar that you study each day.
Actively listen.
Consider incorporating the following:
Listen carefully to native speakers.
Imitate what you hear.
When you hear something you do not understand, write it down and find out what it means.
Practice using the vocabulary or sentence pattern.
When listening, identify vocabulary and patterns that you have recently learned.
When you hear a phrase expressed differently from the way you would say it, write it down and practice it.
However, as a servant of the Lord, always use appropriate language, not slang.
Make a list of things people might say to you during your planned activities.
Look up words and phrases related to these responses.
Plan and practice ways that you could respond.
Improve your ability to read and write.
Read the Book of Mormon in your mission language to learn vocabulary and phrases and to practice grammar, pronunciation, and fluency.
There is great power in using the scriptures in your language study.
Also consider the following ideas:
Learn to read and write the alphabet, script, or characters of your language.
For character-based writing systems, focus on reading skills, such as scripture reading, that will help you when you teach.
Read out loud from the Book of Mormon, other scriptures, or Church magazines in your mission language.
Pay attention to unfamiliar vocabulary, phrases, and grammar.
If you do not understand a word, try to understand its meaning from the context of the passage before you look it up.
Add the word to your note cards.
Use your native-language and mission-language scriptures side-by-side if necessary.
Have someone coach you on pronunciation, intonation, and pauses as you read.
Practice writing in your mission language—for example, personal notes and reminders, letters, thank-you notes, and notes of encouragement.
Write your testimony in copies of the Book of Mormon that you distribute.
Ask others to help you.
Consider incorporating the following ideas:
If your companion is a native speaker, take advantage of this great opportunity by asking questions frequently and seeking feedback.
Ask your companion and native speakers to correct you and to suggest ways to improve.
If they use a word you don’t understand, ask them to define it for you.
Children and grandparents are often willing to help.
Invite those you teach to help you.
Explain, “I’m learning your language.
Please help me.
If I struggle to find a word, please help me with it.”
Do not hesitate to ask for specific help: “How do you say … ?” “How do you pronounce … ?” “What does __________ mean?” “Would you please repeat that?” Write down the answers and study them.
Ask members to quiz you on your note cards or vocabulary lists and to help you in reading scriptures aloud.
Evaluate and revise your study plan.
Review your study plan each week to evaluate if it is working.
Invite your companion and mission leaders to suggest areas for improvement.
Use your mission language at every opportunity.
Speak the language with your companion as much as possible throughout the day.
Pray in the language privately and publicly to learn the appropriate language for prayer and to learn to speak what is in your heart.
Do not be afraid of making mistakes.
Everyone who learns a new language makes mistakes.
People will understand, and they will appreciate your efforts to learn their language.
Memorizing phrases and scriptures will help you avoid mistakes, but you should not use lengthy memorized or prepared scripts as a way to avoid mistakes.
Activity: Personal Study
Using the guidelines described above, create a study plan.
Review your plan with your companion or a mission leader.
Activity: Personal Study
Using the guidelines described above, create a study plan.
Review your plan with your companion or a mission leader.
