Features of Preach My Gospel
Each chapter in Preach My Gospel has several features.
These features should help you get more from your study.
Use these features in a flexible manner based on your needs.
Study Journal
Preach My Gospel frequently asks that you use a study journal to help you understand, clarify, and remember what you are learning.
Elder Richard G.
Scott taught, “Knowledge carefully recorded is knowledge available in time of need.
Spiritually sensitive information should be kept in a sacred place that communicates to the Lord how you treasure it.
This practice enhances the likelihood of your receiving further light” (“ Acquiring Spiritual Knowledge ,” Ensign, Nov.
1993, 86).
Review your study journal regularly to recall spiritual experiences, see new insights, and recognize your growth.
Your study journal may be a bound journal, a notebook, or a binder.
Record and organize your thoughts and impressions in a way that fits how you learn.
Develop your own system to easily access key information in the future.
Use it often to review, access, and apply what you have learned.
Use your study journal to take notes and record impressions during your personal and companion study, district council, zone conferences, mission leadership council, and interviews with the mission president.
Information Boxes
The boxes in Preach My Gospel will help you learn.
Some boxes preview or summarize key points.
Others help you focus your study, learn from the scriptures, apply what you learn, develop your abilities, and meet the needs of those you teach.
In most cases, these boxes are simply a starting point.
Prayerfully build on the activities in the boxes by developing new study activities and searching additional scriptures.
“Consider This.” Most chapters begin with questions in a “Consider This” box.
These questions focus on the key points of the chapter and provide a framework for your study.
Use these questions to help you organize, understand, ponder, and apply what you learn.
“Remember This.” Most chapters end with a “Remember This” box—a summary of the most important points from the chapter.
As you finish studying a chapter, review these statements to ensure you understand these main points.
Evaluate how well you are applying these points, and make plans to continue to apply what you have learned.
“Scripture Study.” These boxes direct you to scripture references that can build your understanding and testimony.
Build on these references by searching for additional scriptures.
Ask yourself additional related questions that will help you gain insight and apply what you learn.
“Activity.” Most chapters have activities for personal and companion study to enhance your learning and application.
Repeat these activities throughout your mission.
You will gain new insights each time you do because your needs—and the needs of those you are teaching—will change.
Red Boxes.
These boxes have important information and suggestions for many teaching situations.
Stories
All the stories in Preach My Gospel are true, although the names of most of the people have been changed.
Each story illustrates several principles associated with missionary work.
As you read these stories, look for the principles they illustrate.
Ideas for Study and Application
Each chapter concludes with additional ideas for personal study, companion study, district council, zone conferences, and mission leadership council.
This rich resource of learning activities provides examples of effective ways to learn the material.
Be creative and seek inspiration to create additional activities as you study or teach one of these sections.
Complete these activities several times during your mission.
