Help Others Become Converted to the Savior
Focus on Your Missionary Purpose
Perhaps you have wondered which of your many missionary duties are the most important.
This is a good question to consider as you set goals and plan each week and each day.
To help answer it, think about your purpose as a missionary:
“Invite others to come unto Christ by helping them receive the restored gospel through faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, repentance, baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.”
Let your missionary purpose guide your goals and plans.
Focus on how you can help individuals exercise their agency to become converted to the Savior and receive His gospel.
Seek the guidance of the Spirit and counsel with your companion as you set goals and make plans.
Then follow through with your plans and use your time effectively.
“We do not preach and teach in order to ‘bring people into the Church’ or to increase the membership of the Church.
We do not preach and teach just to persuade people to live better lives.
… We invite all to come unto Christ by repentance and baptism and confirmation in order to open the doors of the celestial kingdom to the sons and daughters of God.
No one else can do this” (Dallin H.
Oaks, “The Purpose of Missionary Work,” missionary satellite broadcast, Apr.
1995).
Scripture Study
How did these missionaries and prophets accomplish their plans with the Lord’s help?
Alma 17:1–3
Ether 2:23–25 ; 3:1–6
Scripture Study
How did these missionaries and prophets accomplish their plans with the Lord’s help?
Alma 17:1–3
Ether 2:23–25 ; 3:1–6
Align with the Key Indicators for Conversion
Church leaders have identified six key indicators for conversion.
Key indicators help you focus on the spiritual progress of God’s children.
They are intended to help you align your daily efforts with your missionary purpose.
The key indicators for conversion are shown below.
New People Being Taught.
Each person (not baptized) who has received a lesson in a given week (but wasn’t taught in the past three months) and accepted a specific return appointment.
A lesson typically includes praying (when appropriate), teaching at least one gospel principle, and extending an invitation.
Lessons with a Member Participating.
The number of lessons in a given week in which a person (not baptized) was taught and a member participated.
People Being Taught Who Attend Sacrament Meeting.
Each person (not baptized) you are teaching who attended sacrament meeting in a given week.
People with a Baptismal Date.
Each person who has agreed to be baptized and confirmed on a specific date.
People Who Are Baptized and Confirmed.
Each new member who has received the ordinances of baptism and confirmation and for whom the form was submitted electronically in a given week.
(See chapter 12 for the definition of a convert baptism and for information on creating records.)
New Members Attending Sacrament Meeting.
Each new member whose Baptism and Confirmation Form was submitted within the past 12 months who attended sacrament meeting in a given week.
In summary, give priority to helping people choose to participate in these experiences.
Center your efforts on the following activities:
Those that help you find new people to teach
Those that help people progress toward making and keeping covenants
Those that help people who have been baptized and confirmed in the past year
If you cannot see how your efforts might help a person progress in a way that is reflected in your key indicators, evaluate whether the activity is a good use of your time.
For people you spend less time with, continue to nurture their interest in the gospel.
You could invite members to reach out to them.
You could also use technology to encourage them and continue to minister to them.
See “ Use Technology ” in chapter 9 for additional ideas.
“The ultimate objective of planning and setting goals is to make disciples—that is, to have consecrated converts who make and keep sacred covenants, beginning with a baptismal covenant leading to temple covenants” (Quentin L.
Cook, “Purpose and Planning,” mission leadership seminar, June 25, 2019).
Set Key Indicator Goals and Make Plans
During weekly planning, you and your companion set goals for all the key indicators.
Your key indicator goals should reflect your desire to help more people experience the blessings of conversion.
Set goals and make plans to do things in your control that can influence key indicator outcomes.
For example:
You might set a key indicator goal to begin teaching a specific number of new people during the week.
Whether you reach that goal depends on other people’s agency.
But do what is in your control to accomplish it.
One way is to set a goal to talk with a certain number of new people each day.
Then plan how you will do that.
See the ideas in Appendix 2 of this chapter and in chapter 9 .
You might set key indicator goals to have a specific number of new members and people you are teaching attend sacrament meeting.
Whether they come or not depends on their agency.
But do what is in your control to influence these key indicator outcomes.
Plan when to invite them and how to follow up.
You might set a key indicator goal to have members participate in a specific number of lessons during the week.
Whether you reach that goal depends on the members and the people you are teaching.
But do what you can to influence this key indicator outcome.
Set a goal to work with ward leaders to have members present.
Then plan how you will coordinate their participation.
As a companionship, you set the key indicator goals for your own area.
Base them on (1) the progress of those you are teaching and (2) the need to find new people to teach.
Finding new people to teach is a constant need.
Mission-wide key indicator goals are based on the goals set by each companionship.
The Preach My Gospel app will help you stay focused on people as you set key indicator goals.
This app will also help you learn from past goals and show your progress toward current goals.
Key indicator goals and results are automatically reported to your mission leaders and young missionary leaders through the Preach My Gospel app.
Be careful not to emphasize one key indicator goal over the others.
An ongoing focus on all key indicators will help you consistently invite others to come unto Christ and make covenants.
“When performance is measured, performance improves.
When performance is measured and reported, the rate of improvement accelerates” (quoted by Thomas S.
Monson, “Thou Art a Teacher Come from God,” Improvement Era , Dec.
1970, 101).
Work Diligently
The Lord desires that you “act … in all diligence” in your missionary service ( Doctrine and Covenants 107:99 ).
Diligence is a consistent, valiant effort.
Work diligently on your key indicator goals.
Invite people to make commitments that lead to conversion.
Your diligent efforts can inspire them to take actions that will help them come unto Christ (see 2 Nephi 2:14–16 ).
Teach the gospel in ways that meet people’s needs.
The doctrine, when understood by the Spirit, is more likely than anything else to inspire them to act.
At the same time, recognize that key indicator goals depend on the agency of others.
Always respect people’s agency.
Remember that key indicators are not the end goal.
Instead, they represent a person’s potential spiritual progress toward baptism, confirmation, and enduring conversion.
People’s actual progress will depend on their choices.
You support their progress by exercising faith in Christ on their behalf as you set goals, plan, act diligently, and minister to them in an inspired way.
