Conduct Weekly and Daily Planning Sessions
Weekly planning helps you see the big picture and focus on people.
It also helps you focus on activities that are most important.
Daily planning helps you adapt and prepare to take specific actions each day.
You want to be productive, not just busy.
During planning sessions, ask yourself basic questions about what you feel the Lord would have you do.
Seek inspiration to answer these questions in ways that are appropriate for each situation and person.
The answers should then take shape in your plans.
Weekly Planning Session
Hold a weekly planning session with your companion on a day and time set by your mission president.
Follow the steps below.
Pray and seek inspiration.
Ask Heavenly Father to guide you in making plans that will help accomplish His purposes.
Ask Him to bless your efforts to help people progress and come unto Christ.
Set goals and make plans for all the key indicators using the Preach My Gospel app.
Use the goal-setting process described earlier in this chapter.
Begin with:
People who were baptized and confirmed within the past year.
People who have a baptismal date.
People you are teaching who attend sacrament meeting.
New people being taught.
Returning members, part-member families, and prospective elders.
People previously taught.
See Appendix 1 in this chapter for ideas about using the goal-setting process in working with people you are teaching.
Use the goal-setting process to find people to teach (see Appendix 2 in this chapter and chapter 9 for help with finding).
Use the goal-setting process to build relationships with ward leaders and members.
Set goals and make plans for how you will support them in their efforts to share the gospel (see ideas in chapters 9 and 13 ).
Prepare for the ward’s weekly coordination meeting (see chapter 13 ).
Review your plans and goals in the Preach My Gospel app.
Confirm your appointments and meetings.
Hold a companionship council.
This usually includes the following elements:
If desired, share appropriate personal goals and ask your companion for help in accomplishing them.
Discuss the strength of your relationship.
Discuss any challenges with being obedient or working in unity.
Resolve any conflicts by (1) allowing each person to fully express his or her views, (2) understanding and accepting each person’s concerns, and (3) building a solution together that addresses the most important concerns.
Share with your companion what you think his or her strengths are.
Ask for suggestions on how you can improve.
Set goals that will improve your relationship.
Companionship councils can help you develop important skills that you can use in your personal and family life, Church service, employment, and other associations.
Conclude with prayer.
Daily Planning Session
Set goals and make plans with your companion for 30 minutes every morning.
Follow the steps below.
Pray and seek inspiration.
Review progress toward your weekly key indicator goals.
Review your plans to help people you are teaching.
Prioritize your efforts to help those who are making the most progress.
Adjust daily goals and plans as needed.
Commit to actions you will take that day to find new people to teach and to help people you are teaching.
Plan how you will work with local leaders and members.
Conclude with prayer.
Companion Study
Review Appendix 1 and Appendix 2 at the end of this chapter for ideas about how to apply the goal-setting process in teaching and finding.
Identify how you can use some of these ideas.
Companion Study
Review Appendix 1 and Appendix 2 at the end of this chapter for ideas about how to apply the goal-setting process in teaching and finding.
Identify how you can use some of these ideas.
