Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Consider the following sentence from your call letter: “As you devote your time and attention to serving the Lord, leaving behind all other personal affairs, the Lord will bless you with increased knowledge and testimony of Jesus Christ and His restored gospel.” Ask yourself the following questions, and record your impressions.
How am I doing with devoting my time and attention to serving the Lord?
What blessings have I experienced?
How has my testimony been strengthened?
How can I improve?
Take a few moments to think about your last day in the mission field.
When that day comes:
What do you want your relationship with Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ to be like?
What do you want to have become?
In your study journal, write an answer to each of these questions.
Use the goal-setting process to plan what you can do now to work toward these goals.
Record your plans.
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Using the Preach My Gospel app, answer the questions below:
Are all the records current and accurate?
Would a missionary who is new to the area benefit from your record of your efforts to find new people to teach?
If you were to review your app right now, would it help you know where people are?
Would it help you know about their progress?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite missionaries to share experiences with goals they have set and plans they have made to help people progress.
Examples might include goals and plans to help people:
Develop greater faith in the Savior.
Repent and make changes to come closer to God.
Be baptized and confirmed.
Come back to the Church and renew their baptismal covenant.
Read one of the following situations to the missionaries.
Have the missionaries divide into small groups.
Have each group use steps 1 and 2 in the goal-setting process to help the people in these examples progress toward baptism and confirmation.
Have each group share their ideas.
A person you are teaching has accepted an invitation to attend church this week.
A person has accepted a baptismal invitation and has set a goal with you to be baptized.
A person has accepted your invitation to read the Book of Mormon and has committed to read 1 Nephi 1 .
Invite missionaries to use the Preach My Gospel app to help them set realistic but stretching goals by:
Reviewing past key indicator history and progress.
Setting daily, weekly, and monthly goals.
Adding people to key indicator goals.
Discuss how these steps can help missionaries plan more effectively as they help people progress.
Ask the missionaries to consider the following:
How will you use the Preach My Gospel app in the future as you plan?
What other ways have you discovered to use the app more effectively?
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
Frequently review the missionaries’ Preach My Gospel app.
Invite them to share how they use it to track their goals and plans and to help people progress.
Occasionally observe missionaries’ weekly or daily planning sessions.
