Appendix 2
Apply the Goal-Setting Process in Finding People to Teach
This section provides examples of how you might apply the goal-setting process in finding new people to teach.
Use this process in your weekly and daily planning.
1.
Set Goals and Make Plans
With your companion, prayerfully consider what Heavenly Father would have you do to find more people to teach.
Do this each week and each day.
Have faith that He is preparing people for you (see Doctrine and Covenants 100:3–8 ).
Set finding goals each day.
Make plans for actions in your control that influence key indicator outcomes.
Examples include:
How many new people you will talk with about the gospel each day.
How many times you will ask members, people you are teaching, and people you contact if they know someone who might be interested in your message.
How quickly you will respond to referrals or comments on social media posts.
Review the Preach My Gospel app and ask yourselves questions like these:
What would Heavenly Father have us do today and this week to find people to teach?
What daily and weekly key indicator goals can we set to find people to teach?
Which finding activity is best for this time of day and location?
How can we inspire and support ward members in their efforts to share the gospel through the principles of loving, sharing, and inviting?
Which new members can we contact to help them attend sacrament meeting?
Do they have any friends they might invite?
How can we work with the ward council or participants in the ward’s weekly coordination meeting to identify part-member families, returning members, and prospective elders to contact?
Which people currently being taught, people formerly taught, and referred people can we contact?
How will we contact them?
(In person, through technology, by phone, or in other ways)
What are some new ways we can find people?
What personal talents and strengths can we use?
How can we improve our ability to find people to teach?
How can we help those we contact feel the influence of the Holy Ghost?
For examples of finding activities, see chapters 9 , 10 , and 13 .
Use the Preach My Gospel app to help you identify finding activities that have been effective in the past.
For example, you can see how recent converts were found.
Seek inspiration and be open to new impressions and ideas.
Avoid getting stuck in a routine.
Missionaries who consistently find new people to teach often use a variety of ways each week.
They work at it constantly.
2.
Record and Schedule Your Plans
With your companion, use the Preach My Gospel app to record and schedule your goals and plans in detail.
Recording and scheduling your plans will help you identify what actions to take and when to take them.
Ask yourselves questions like these:
When and how will we contact people?
What are the best approaches?
Where are the best locations?
What are the best times of day for the different ways of finding people?
How can we have meaningful conversations with people we meet?
How and when will we find online using social media and other technology?
When will we contact referrals?
What backup plans will we make for when other plans fall through?
3.
Act on Your Plans
Diligently strive to achieve your goals to find people to teach.
Have a prayer in your heart throughout the day.
Be open to greeting and speaking to people you meet.
The Spirit will help you know where to go, what to do, what to say, and what adjustments to make.
During the day, ask yourselves questions like these:
How can we work with faith, trusting the Lord to help us and magnify our efforts to serve His children?
How can we be creative and courageous when acting on our plans?
How can we adapt our plans according to people’s needs and circumstances?
How can we help people feel the influence of the Holy Ghost?
Plans will not always go as you hope.
Be flexible and use backup plans when needed.
4.
Review Progress and Follow Up
Throughout the day and week, prayerfully review progress in reaching your goals to find people to teach.
Ask yourselves questions like these:
How well did we do in reaching our goals and following our plans?
What adjustments should we make to meet our goals to find people?
How can we avoid slipping into a routine that is not effective in finding people to teach?
What is something new we can try during this time of day?
What are some ideas we can discuss in the ward’s weekly coordination meeting to help us find people to teach?
(See chapter 13 .)
As a companionship, use the “ Finding Efforts ” chart in chapter 9 to evaluate your weekly and daily finding efforts.
Recognize those things you are doing well, and consider how you can improve.
Throughout the day, pause for a few minutes to recognize God’s hand in your work.
