Conducting the Baptismal Interview
Each person who desires to be baptized is interviewed by an authorized priesthood leader.
In a mission, this person is the district or zone leader.
He conducts interviews for:
Persons ages 9 and older who have never been baptized and confirmed.
Children ages 8 and older whose parents are not members of the Church.
Children ages 8 and older who have a parent who is also being baptized and confirmed.
Guidelines for the interviewer are provided below.
Hold the interview in a comfortable, private place where the Spirit can be felt.
When interviewing a child, youth, or woman, the interviewer’s companion should be nearby in an adjoining room, foyer, or hall.
If the person desires, another adult may be invited to participate in the interview.
Missionaries should avoid all circumstances that could be misunderstood.
Begin with prayer.
Help the person feel comfortable.
Make the interview a spiritually uplifting experience.
Make sure the person understands the purpose of the interview.
Ask the baptismal interview questions listed below.
Adapt the questions to the person’s age, maturity, and circumstance as needed.
Respond to the person’s questions.
Review the information on the Baptism and Confirmation Form for accuracy.
If the person is a minor, a parent or guardian needs to sign the form before the baptism (see the “ Baptism and Confirmation: Questions and Answers ” section in this chapter).
Invite the person to bear testimony or share his or her feelings.
Express appreciation for being able to meet with the person.
Baptismal Interview Questions
The baptismal interview questions are as follows:
Do you believe that God is our Eternal Father?
Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Savior and Redeemer of the world?
Do you believe that the Church and gospel of Jesus Christ have been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith?
Do you believe that [current Church President] is a prophet of God?
What does this mean to you?
What does it mean to you to repent?
Do you feel that you have repented of your past sins?
You have been taught that membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints includes living gospel standards.
What do you understand about the following standards?
Are you willing to obey them?
The law of chastity, which prohibits any sexual relations outside the bonds of a legal marriage between a man and a woman
The law of tithing
The Word of Wisdom
Keeping the Sabbath day holy, including partaking of the sacrament weekly and serving others
Have you ever committed a serious crime?
If so, are you now on probation or parole?
Have you ever participated in an abortion?
(See General Handbook , 38.6.1 .)
When you are baptized, you covenant with God that you are willing to take upon yourself the name of Christ, serve others, stand as a witness of God at all times, and keep His commandments throughout your life.
Are you ready to make this covenant and strive to be faithful to it?
For instructions if the person answers affirmatively to question 5 or 6, see General Handbook , 38.2.8.7 and 38.2.8.8 .
Become familiar with the policies and guidelines related to baptism and confirmation in General Handbook , 38.2.8 .
Some of these policies involve special circumstances that you may encounter.
After the interview, the missionary and the candidate rejoin the other missionaries.
If the person is ready for baptism, the missionaries explain what will happen at the baptismal service.
They also explain that the confirmation typically takes place in a sacrament meeting of the ward where the person lives.
