Baptism and Confirmation: Questions and Answers
Do I need permission to baptize a minor?
The Church is concerned for the well-being of children and the harmony of their home environment.
A minor, as defined by local laws, may be baptized when both of the following conditions are met:
The custodial parent(s) or legal guardian(s) give written permission.
They should have a general understanding of the doctrine their child will be taught as a member of the Church.
They should also be willing to support the child in making and keeping the baptismal covenant.
The person who conducts the interview discerns that the child understands the baptismal covenant.
He should feel confident that the child will strive to keep this covenant by obeying the commandments, including attending Church meetings.
Do I need consent of the spouse to baptize a husband or wife?
Yes.
A married person must have the consent of his or her spouse before being baptized.
If a parent in a family is not ready for baptism, should I baptize other family members or wait until the parent is ready?
It is preferable that family members be baptized together.
However, if some are not ready, individual family members may be baptized as long as any necessary consent is given.
Should baptisms of family members be delayed until the father can receive the Aaronic Priesthood and perform the baptisms himself?
No.
Newly baptized brethren do not receive the Aaronic Priesthood on the day they are baptized.
They first need to be interviewed by the bishop and sustained by ward members.
May I teach and baptize a person who resigned Church membership or whose membership was withdrawn?
People who resigned Church membership or whose membership was withdrawn may be readmitted by baptism and confirmation.
If they would like to be taught, counsel with local priesthood leaders and your mission president about any role you might have.
In a stake, readmission by baptism is under the direction of the bishop or stake president.
In a mission, readmission is under the direction of the mission president.
These leaders will receive guidance from the First Presidency as needed.
Missionaries do not conduct these baptismal interviews or fill out the Baptism and Confirmation Form.
However, a missionary may be invited to perform the baptism.
Former members of the Church who rejoin are not converts.
Nevertheless, missionaries can sometimes have an important role in helping them enjoy the blessings of Church membership again.
What if a person has a scheduled baptismal date but is not keeping all the commitments?
Wait to schedule a baptismal interview until the person is keeping the commitments and meets the baptism qualifications.
See “ When a Baptism Needs to Be Postponed ” in this chapter.
What if a couple want to be baptized but are living together?
A couple living together outside of a legal marriage between a man and a woman may not be baptized until they live the law of chastity.
This means no longer living together—whether as a heterosexual couple or a same-sex couple—or, for a man and a woman, it means getting married.
It also includes exercising faith unto repentance as described in Doctrine and Covenants 20:37 .
Marriage between a man and a woman is an essential part of God’s plan.
Questions 5 and 6 in the baptismal interview ask if a person has ever committed a serious crime or participated in an abortion.
What should I do if someone answers “yes” to either of these questions?
If you become aware of one of these situations during a baptismal interview, do not ask about the details.
Do not promise that the person will be approved for baptism.
Instead, express your love and kindly explain that someone with more maturity and experience will talk with the person and help.
Send a baptismal interview request to your mission president.
He or one of his counselors will meet with the person.
See General Handbook , 38.2.8.7 and 38.2.8.8 .
What should I do if a membership record has been created before I submit the Baptism and Confirmation Form?
Contact your mission president for instructions.
Personal Study
Think about how you might feel if you were being interviewed.
Consider the following questions and record your impressions.
How might the interview seem uncomfortable to you?
What could the interviewer do or say to put you at ease?
How would you want the interviewer to interact with you?
How would you want the interviewer to respond if you expressed doubts or misunderstandings or if you confessed serious sins?
Personal Study
Think about how you might feel if you were being interviewed.
Consider the following questions and record your impressions.
How might the interview seem uncomfortable to you?
What could the interviewer do or say to put you at ease?
How would you want the interviewer to interact with you?
How would you want the interviewer to respond if you expressed doubts or misunderstandings or if you confessed serious sins?
