Suggestions for Teaching
This section provides a sample outline to help you prepare to teach.
It also includes examples of questions and invitations you might use.
As you prepare to teach, prayerfully consider each person’s situation and spiritual needs.
Decide what will be most helpful to teach.
Prepare to define terms that people might not understand.
Plan according to how much time you will have, remembering to keep lessons brief.
Select scriptures to use as you teach.
The “ Doctrinal Foundation ” section of the lesson includes many helpful scriptures.
Consider which questions to ask as you teach.
Plan invitations to extend that will encourage each person to act.
Emphasize God’s promised blessings, and share your testimony of what you teach.
What You Might Teach People in 15–25 Minutes
Select one or more of the following principles about the plan of salvation to teach.
The doctrinal foundation for each principle is provided after this outline.
Premortal Life: God’s Purpose and Plan for Us
We are all spirit children of God.
He created us in His own image.
We lived with God before we were born on earth.
We are members of His family.
He knows and loves each of us.
God has provided a plan for our happiness and progress in this life and in eternity.
In our premortal life, we chose to follow God’s plan.
This meant coming to earth so we could take the next step in our eternal progression.
Jesus Christ is central to God’s plan.
He makes it possible for us to have immortality and eternal life.
The Creation
Under God’s direction, Jesus Christ created the earth.
The Fall of Adam and Eve
Adam and Eve were the first of God’s spirit children to come to earth.
God created their bodies and placed them in the Garden of Eden.
Adam and Eve transgressed, were cast out of the garden, and were separated from God’s presence.
This event is called the Fall.
After the Fall, Adam and Eve became mortal.
As mortals, they were able to learn, progress, and have children.
They also experienced sorrow, sin, and death.
The Fall was a step forward for humankind.
The Fall made it possible for us to be born on earth and progress in Heavenly Father’s plan.
Our Life on Earth
In God’s plan, we needed to come to earth to receive physical bodies, learn, and grow.
On earth, we learn to walk by faith.
However, Heavenly Father has not left us alone.
He has provided many gifts and guides to help us return to His presence.
The Atonement of Jesus Christ
Each of us sins, and each of us will die.
Because God loves us, He sent His Son, Jesus Christ, to earth to redeem us from sin and death.
Because of Jesus’s atoning sacrifice, we can be forgiven and cleansed of our sins.
Our hearts can be changed for the better as we repent.
This makes it possible for us to return to God’s presence and receive a fulness of joy.
Because of Jesus’s Resurrection, we will all be resurrected after we die.
This means that each person’s spirit and body will be reunited, and each of us will live forever in a perfected, resurrected body.
Jesus Christ offers comfort, hope, and healing.
His atoning sacrifice is the ultimate expression of His love.
All that is unfair in life can be made right through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
The Spirit World
When our physical body dies, our spirit continues to live in the spirit world.
This is a temporary state of learning and preparation before the Resurrection.
The gospel of Jesus Christ is taught in the spirit world, and we can continue to grow and progress.
The Resurrection, Salvation, and Exaltation
After our time in the spirit world, the Resurrection is the next step in our eternal journey.
The Resurrection is the reuniting of our spirit and body.
Each of us will be resurrected and have a perfected physical body.
We will live forever.
This is made possible by the Savior’s Atonement and Resurrection.
Judgment and Kingdoms of Glory
When we are resurrected, Jesus Christ will be our judge.
With very few exceptions, all of God’s children will receive a place in a kingdom of glory.
Although we will all be resurrected, we will not all receive the same eternal glory.
Jesus will judge us according to our faith, works, and repentance in mortality and in the spirit world.
We can return to live in God’s presence if we are faithful.
Questions You Might Ask People
The following questions are examples of what you might ask people.
These questions can help you have meaningful conversations and understand a person’s needs and perspective.
What do you feel is the purpose of life?
What brings you happiness?
What challenges do you need God to help you with?
What have you learned from the challenges you have faced?
What do you know about Jesus Christ?
How have His life and mission affected your life?
Invitations You Might Extend
Will you ask God in prayer to help you know that what we have taught is true?
(See “ Teaching Insights: Prayer ” in the last section of lesson 1.)
Will you attend church with us this Sunday to learn more about what we have taught?
Will you read the Book of Mormon and pray to know that it is the word of God?
(You might suggest specific chapters or verses.)
Will you follow Jesus’s example and be baptized?
(See “ The Invitation to Be Baptized and Confirmed ,” which immediately precedes lesson 1.)
May we set a time for our next visit?
