Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Record your spiritual experiences in your journal.
For example, answer questions such as: Have I understood something better as I have studied the scriptures?
Have I had unusual opportunities to meet people with whom I could share a message?
Have I been given words to say at the moment I needed them?
Have I had strong feelings of love for the people I have met?
How have my prayers been answered?
Divide a page into two columns.
Label one column “What the Lord Did” and the other column “What Lehi or Nephi Did.” Read the story of the Liahona and the broken bow ( 1 Nephi 16:9–30 ) or the story of Nephi building a ship ( 1 Nephi 17:7–16 ; 18:1–6 ).
As you read, list events from the story in the appropriate columns.
Consider what the story can teach you about the nature of inspiration.
Look through your journal and find occasions when you have been led by the Spirit or have experienced revelation or another gift of the Spirit.
Think about when, where, and why these experiences happened.
Did you do anything in particular to prepare yourself for such an experience?
How was the Lord’s hand manifest in the experience?
How did you feel?
What can you do to have similar experiences?
Remembering these experiences can help you recognize and receive the Spirit once again.
The book of Acts in the Bible has been called the “Book of the Acts of the Holy Spirit through the Apostles.” Read the chapter headings of the book of Acts and explain why this title may be appropriate.
Find evidence to justify your explanation.
Study and ponder the following counsel.
How does it relate to your daily missionary activities?
“Tell the brethren to be humble and faithful and be sure to keep the Spirit of the Lord, that it will lead them aright.
Be careful and not turn away the still, small voice; it will teach them what to do and where to go; it will yield the fruits of the kingdom.
Tell the brethren to keep their heart open to conviction, so that when the Holy Ghost comes to them their hearts will be ready to receive it.
They can tell the Spirit of the Lord from all other spirits—it will whisper peace and joy to their souls; it will take malice, hatred, strife and all evil from their hearts, and their whole desire will be to do good” (quoted in Juvenile Instructor, July 19, 1873, 114).
The Prophet Joseph Smith gave this counsel to Brigham Young in a dream almost three years after Joseph Smith’s death.
If you were in Brigham Young’s place and received this counsel, what would you do?
Study Alma 33:1–12 ; 34:17–29, 38 .
What questions was Alma answering?
(Review Alma 33:1–2 .) How did Alma answer these questions?
What assurances did he give that God hears and answers prayers?
The Lord has promised that the Spirit will guide us in many important ways.
As you read the following passages, identify aspects of your work that require the guidance of the Spirit.
What do the commandments and promises contained in the following scriptures mean for your personal and companion study?
for district council, zone conferences, baptismal services, and other meetings?
Praying
3 Nephi 19:24
Doctrine and Covenants 50:30
Doctrine and Covenants 46:30
Romans 8:26
Conducting meetings
Moroni 6:9
Doctrine and Covenants 20:45
Doctrine and Covenants 46:2
Writing
Doctrine and Covenants 9:9
Doctrine and Covenants 24:6
Doctrine and Covenants 47:4
Doctrine and Covenants 104:81
Doctrine and Covenants 124:4
Moses 6:6
Read the following scripture passages (including the headings to these sections).
Doctrine and Covenants 60:1–5
Doctrine and Covenants 61:1–4, 21–22
Doctrine and Covenants 62:4–8
In this account, what was very important to the Lord?
What did not matter to the Lord?
Consider the following statement by President Dallin H.
Oaks:
“[A person may have] a strong desire to be led by the Spirit of the Lord but … unwisely extends that desire to the point of wanting to be led in all things.
A desire to be led by the Lord is a strength, but it needs to be accompanied by an understanding that our Heavenly Father leaves many decisions for our personal choices.
Personal decision making is one of the sources of the growth we are meant to experience in mortality.
Persons who try to shift all decision making to the Lord and plead for revelation in every choice will soon find circumstances in which they pray for guidance and don’t receive it.
For example, this is likely to occur in those numerous circumstances in which the choices are trivial or either choice is acceptable.
“We should study things out in our minds, using the reasoning powers our Creator has placed within us.
Then we should pray for guidance and act upon it if we receive it.
If we do not receive guidance, we should act upon our best judgment.
Persons who persist in seeking revelatory guidance on subjects on which the Lord has not chosen to direct us may concoct an answer out of their own fantasy or bias, or they may even receive an answer through the medium of false revelation” (“ Our Strengths Can Become Our Downfall ,” Ensign, Oct.
1994, 13–14).
What is the relationship between following your own judgment and relying on the Spirit?
Companion Study
Talk about the prayers you offer as companions.
Are they guided by the Holy Ghost?
Have you received answers to your prayers?
When you pray as companions, do you:
Believe that God will give you what you ask for in righteousness?
Acknowledge and give thanks for answers to your prayers?
Pray for people by name and consider their needs?
Pray for each other and for the Spirit to guide you?
Receive answers to your prayers?
Discuss as companions how you will seek the Spirit more earnestly.
Discuss the different ways that people describe the influence of the Holy Ghost.
Write comments that those you teach have made about their experiences with the Spirit in learning the gospel and trying to keep commitments.
How can you help others recognize this sacred influence?
How can you avoid being manipulative as you do so?
Consider and discuss how the following counsel applies to you: “You cannot force spiritual things.
Such words as compel, coerce, constrain, pressure, demand, do not describe our privileges with the Spirit.
You can no more force the Spirit to respond than you can force a bean to sprout, or an egg to hatch before its time.
You can create a climate to foster growth, nourish, and protect; but you cannot force or compel: you must await the growth” (Boyd K.
Packer, “ The Candle of the Lord ,” 53).
Discuss the following statements and how these principles can change both your prayers and your work.
How can your prayers influence your planning, goal setting, work, and activities each day?
“Our deeds, in large measure, are children of our prayers.
Having prayed, we act; our proper petitions have the effect of charting a righteous course of conduct for us” (Bruce R.
McConkie, “ Why the Lord Ordained Prayer ,” Ensign, Jan.
1976, 12).
“Sincere praying implies that when we ask for any blessing or virtue we should work for the blessing and cultivate the virtue” (David O.
McKay, Secrets of a Happy Life [1968], 114–15).
“Ask [God] to put you just where he wants you, and to tell you what he wants you to do, and feel that you are on hand to do it” (Brigham Young, Discourses of Brigham Young, sel.
John A.
Widtsoe [1954], 46).
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Present a lesson on using proper and respectful language in prayer.
As appropriate, have missionaries share a story or experience they heard in a recent testimony meeting, teaching experience, or other setting.
The spiritual stories and experiences other people tell can help you develop faith and recognize that the Spirit’s influence is widely and frequently manifest.
Express gratitude for manifestations of the Lord’s hand in your work (see Doctrine and Covenants 59:21 ).
Discuss how expressing gratitude helps you see the small but very significant ways the Lord blesses you (see Ether 3:5 ).
Ask the missionaries to give talks about the mission and power of the Holy Ghost.
Ask a recent convert to talk about how he or she was influenced by the Spirit as he or she learned about the Church.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Occasionally ask missionaries to include appropriate spiritual experiences in their weekly letter to you.
In interviews or in conversations, occasionally ask missionaries about their morning and evening prayers.
Ask them if they feel their prayers are meaningful.
Ask missionaries how they help those they teach feel and recognize the Spirit.
As appropriate, relate to missionaries how you receive revelation on transfers, missionaries who are disobedient or need help, and doctrine to teach.
