Weekly Coordination Meetings
Coordination with local leaders—including youth leaders—is essential to being united in your missionary efforts.
If a ward mission leader is called, he conducts weekly coordination meetings.
Otherwise, the member of the elders quorum presidency who fills this role conducts.
In these brief, informal meetings, local leaders and you coordinate efforts to share the gospel and strengthen new and returning members (see General Handbook , 23.5.7 ).
Meetings may be held in person or remotely.
Coordination should also happen in other ways during the week, including phone calls, texts, and emails.
“A united effort and focus where missionary planning and goal setting align with ward or branch planning and goal setting can be very helpful to accomplish the work of gathering Israel” (Quentin L.
Cook, “Purpose and Planning,” mission leadership seminar, June 25, 2019).
Prepare for the Weekly Coordination Meeting
Support ward leaders by coming prepared to participate in the weekly coordination meeting.
Before the meeting, take time during companionship study to discuss how you can participate effectively.
Keep your records updated in the Preach My Gospel app so leaders have current information about those you are working with.
Prepare to report on assignments from previous meetings.
Participate in the Weekly Coordination Meeting
Weekly coordination meetings are intended to focus on the needs of individuals.
During the meeting, offer how you can support ward members, including youth, in helping meet individuals’ needs.
A weekly coordination meeting usually covers the following four topics:
How can we help those being taught?
Possible discussion items:
Which members could participate in the lessons this coming week?
Who will invite them to participate?
What are the challenges for those being taught?
How can members help?
What are the needs for those with a scheduled baptismal date?
Has the baptism been planned?
(See “ The Baptismal Service ” in chapter 12.)
How can we help those who were recently baptized?
Possible discussion items:
Which new members in their first year of membership are attending sacrament meeting?
How can we help any who are not attending?
Which new members have friends in the ward?
How can ministering brothers and sisters help?
How can youth quorums and classes help?
Which new members have an assignment or calling?
How can we help new members begin researching their deceased ancestors so temple ordinances can be performed for them?
Do new members have a temple recommend?
If a temple is nearby, how can we help them go to the temple to perform baptisms for these ancestors?
Which lessons from chapter 3 still need to be taught again?
How can members participate?
Review My Covenant Path progress for each new member.
How can we help returning members?
Possible discussion items:
Which part-member families can the missionaries visit and teach?
Which returning members can the missionaries visit and teach?
Which returning members have friends in the ward and appropriate opportunities to serve?
How can we help these members?
How can we find more people to teach?
Possible discussion items:
How can we help individuals, including youth, and families apply the principles of love, share, and invite?
(See “ Unite with Members ” in chapter 9.)
How can we help members, including Primary leaders, invite friends to ward activities?
Companion Study
Watch the video of a weekly coordination meeting in General Handbook , 23.5.7 .
What did you learn that you can apply in the next weekly coordination meeting?
How can you better prepare to discuss needs and plan with ward leaders?
In your next planning session, set goals for how you will improve.
Companion Study
Watch the video of a weekly coordination meeting in General Handbook , 23.5.7 .
What did you learn that you can apply in the next weekly coordination meeting?
How can you better prepare to discuss needs and plan with ward leaders?
In your next planning session, set goals for how you will improve.
