Support Local Leaders in Strengthening New Members
When people are baptized and confirmed, they become “fellowcitizens with the saints, and of the household of God” ( Ephesians 2:19 ; see also 1 Corinthians 12:12–27 ).
Work with local leaders to help new members be “nourished by the good word of God, to keep them in the right way, … relying alone upon the merits of Christ” ( Moroni 6:4 ).
“New converts come into the Church with enthusiasm for what they have found.
And we must immediately build on that enthusiasm.
… Missionaries can help introduce and connect the people they teach and the new converts to the faithful members who will reach out to them, listen to them, guide them, and welcome them to church even before they are baptized.
… As we [minister] to those who enter the waters of baptism, we will see many more of God’s children endure to the end and receive eternal life” (Ulisses S.
Soares, “Convert Retention,” mission leadership seminar, June 25, 2018).
Help New Members Attend Sacrament Meeting
You have an important role in helping new members attend church.
Work with leaders to ensure that you or ward members help them attend.
The key indicator showing a new member’s sacrament meeting attendance can help you and ward leaders see when he or she may need extra encouragement.
New members are much more likely to continue attending sacrament meeting and partaking of the sacrament when they have friends in the ward.
Help them feel a sense of belonging, especially during their first year of gospel living.
(See Doctrine and Covenants 84:106, 108 .)
Reteach the Lessons in Chapter 3
Help new members continue to strengthen their faith in the Savior Jesus Christ and His gospel.
The truths and principles of the gospel take deeper root as new members continue to learn by the Spirit.
After confirmation, teach the missionary lessons again.
You take the lead in teaching.
However, coordinate with ward leaders so ward missionaries or other members participate.
Reteaching the lessons in chapter 3 is an important way to help new members be “nourished by the good word of God” ( Moroni 6:4 ).
As you teach, encourage new members to keep all the commitments in the lessons.
Read the scriptures with new members, especially the Book of Mormon, and teach gospel principles.
Help them share the gospel with their friends and family.
Each new member has specific needs, and you can help him or her feel loved and welcomed.
Covenant Path Progress Report and My Covenant Path
Local leaders have resources for their missionary efforts just like you do.
One of these is the Covenant Path Progress report, found in the Member Tools app or Leader and Clerk Resources.
This report lets local leaders see important experiences a person needs to keep progressing on the covenant path before and after baptism.
My Covenant Path is a resource to help new members “stay anchored to [their] faith in Jesus Christ and feel at home in the Church” ( My Covenant Path , iv ).
It introduces new members to activities and opportunities, such as family history and helping deceased ancestors receive sacred ordinances in the temple.
Encourage local members to guide new members through these experiences.
Give support as requested.
Personal or Companion Study
Study My Covenant Path .
What did you learn about your role in helping members strengthen new converts?
How can you support the efforts of the ward council?
Each time you study this chapter, record what you learn.
Personal or Companion Study
Study My Covenant Path .
What did you learn about your role in helping members strengthen new converts?
How can you support the efforts of the ward council?
Each time you study this chapter, record what you learn.
