Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Use the Preach My Gospel app to make plans to talk to new and recently returned members who are changing their lives and attending church.
What has helped them most?
In your study journal, write your thoughts about their experiences.
What have you learned that will help you work with those you are currently teaching?
Study 2 Nephi 31:18–20 , Alma 26:1–7 , Alma 32:32–43 , and Moroni 6 .
Write what you learn from these verses about strengthening new members.
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
Read and discuss chapter 23 in the General Handbook .
How can you support local leaders in their responsibilities?
During weekly coordination meetings, ask ward leaders if there are any returning members in your area they would like you to visit this week.
As you visit them, seek to build their faith in Jesus Christ.
Identify all who have been baptized and confirmed in the last year.
Review the record of one of them and discuss how you can work with leaders in the next weekly coordination meeting to help this person.
Record your ideas and suggestions in the Preach My Gospel app.
Repeat this for all the recent converts in your area.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite a bishop or other ward leader to talk about strengthening new and returning members.
Ask this person to emphasize how missionaries can help.
Discuss the parables of the lost sheep, the lost coin, and the prodigal son (see Luke 15 ).
Invite missionaries to share what they are learning and how they can apply it in their missionary work.
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
Work with local leaders to encourage them to help new members:
Be ordained to a priesthood office (for males of the appropriate age).
Be assigned ministering brothers (and ministering sisters for women).
Receive a temple recommend to be baptized in the temple for their deceased ancestors.
Prepare the name of a deceased ancestor to take to the temple.
Receive an assignment or calling to serve in their ward or branch.
In coordination with the stake president, teach local leaders how to hold effective weekly coordination meetings.
Occasionally follow up with new members to find out how they are doing and how missionaries and members can help.
Invite new members to speak to missionaries and relate their experiences in the Church.
