The Baptismal Service
The baptismal service and confirmation should be spiritual highlights for a new member.
The baptismal service should be scheduled as soon as a person has met the qualifications for baptism.
Explain what is planned and why.
Discuss proper dress, including how the person will be given white clothing to wear for the baptism.
Baptismal services for converts are planned under the bishopric’s guidance.
The ward mission leader (if one is called) or the member of the elders quorum presidency who leads missionary work plans and conducts these services.
He coordinates with the full-time missionaries.
Baptismal services should be simple, brief, and spiritually uplifting.
Invite a member of the bishopric, a member of the Relief Society presidency, and a member of the elders quorum presidency (if he is not conducting) to attend the baptismal service.
When appropriate, invite other organization leaders, youth leaders, and ministering brothers and sisters (if assigned).
Work with the person being baptized to invite friends and relatives to attend the baptismal service and the confirmation.
Consider inviting other people you are teaching.
These experiences will help them feel the Spirit and learn more about the gospel.
After the service, follow up to discuss their experience and invite them to be taught.
A baptismal service may include the following:
Prelude music
A brief welcome from the priesthood leader who is conducting the service (a member of the bishopric should preside if possible)
An opening hymn and prayer
One or two short messages on gospel subjects, such as baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost
A musical selection
The baptism
A time of reverence while those who participated in the baptism change into dry clothes.
(Hymns or Primary songs may be played or sung during this time.
Or the missionaries could give a brief gospel presentation.)
Bearing of testimony by new members, if desired
A closing hymn and prayer
Postlude music
If you schedule a baptism on a Sunday, choose a time that conflicts as little as possible with regular Sunday meetings.
