After Baptism and Confirmation
Continue to Minister
Continue to fellowship and support new members after they are baptized and confirmed.
Help them attend church and build relationships with members.
Read the Book of Mormon with them, and help them share the gospel with family members and friends.
Introduce them to the My Covenant Path booklet.
Continue using the Preach My Gospel app to record their progress, such as their attendance at sacrament meeting and the lessons they have received.
After confirmation, teach the missionary lessons again.
You take the lead in teaching.
However, coordinate with ward leaders so ward missionaries or other members participate.
As you teach, encourage new members to keep all the commitments in the lessons.
In weekly coordination meetings, counsel about how members can support new converts and help them stay actively engaged in the Church.
Plan who will introduce them to quorum or organization leaders.
Coordinate the participation of other members as you teach the lessons again.
Ask to have ministering brothers assigned (and ministering sisters for women).
After a male is confirmed, he is eligible to receive the Aaronic Priesthood if he will be at least 12 years old by the end of the year.
Aaronic Priesthood ordinations are under the direction of the bishop (see General Handbook , 38.2.9.1 ).
As appropriate, communicate throughout your life with those whom you have taught.
Support them in receiving all the blessings of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
“When we come with broken hearts and contrite spirits, we can find voice in Jesus Christ and be encircled in His understanding arms of safety.
Sacred ordinances offer covenant belonging and ‘the power of godliness’ to sanctify inner intent and outward action [ Doctrine and Covenants 84:20 ].
With His loving-kindness and long-suffering, His Church becomes our Inn” (Gerrit W.
Gong, “ Room in the Inn ,” Liahona , May 2021, 27).
Help New Members Participate in the Blessings of the Temple
New members of the appropriate age may receive a temple recommend that allows them to be baptized for their deceased family members (see General Handbook , 26.4.2 ).
They receive this recommend from the bishop.
Encourage and help new members to obtain a temple recommend as soon as reasonable.
If a temple is nearby, consider extending an invitation for a specific time for new members to perform baptisms for deceased ancestors.
In weekly coordination meetings, plan who will introduce new members to the ward temple and family history leader.
This leader can help them prepare to receive the blessings of the temple by making their own temple covenants.
Remember This
Make sure candidates are qualified for baptism and confirmation.
Help baptismal candidates prepare for the baptismal interview.
Help make baptismal services spiritually uplifting.
Complete and submit the Baptism and Confirmation Form.
Continue to support and teach new members after baptism.
Remember This
Make sure candidates are qualified for baptism and confirmation.
Help baptismal candidates prepare for the baptismal interview.
Help make baptismal services spiritually uplifting.
Complete and submit the Baptism and Confirmation Form.
Continue to support and teach new members after baptism.
