Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
List challenges that a baptismal candidate might encounter.
Why is it important that a person feel the love and friendship of Church members?
Study Moroni 6 and Doctrine and Covenants 20:68–69 .
What can you learn from these verses about helping people prepare for baptism and confirmation?
Write what you learn.
Share your thoughts with your companion during companion study.
Companion Study and Companion Exchange
President Henry B.
Eyring explained why gospel standards are important.
Discuss the following counsel.
How can you encourage people to desire to meet these standards?
“The Lord sets His standards so that He can bless us.
Think about those blessings: He promises those who meet the standards the help of the Holy Ghost.
He promises personal peace.
He promises the chance to receive holy ordinances in His house.
And He promises those who endure in living His standards that they will have eternal life.
…
“Because we love the people we serve, all of us want to do better in lifting our Heavenly Father’s children to the faithfulness and purity they need to have all the blessings of the Lord.
…
“… You begin by holding up the Lord’s standards clearly and without apology.
And the more the world drifts from them and mocks them, the bolder we must be in doing that” (“Standards of Worthiness,” First Worldwide Leadership Training Meeting , Jan.
2003, 10–11).
Review the baptismal interview questions.
Consider how you would handle situations such as the following:
The person did not tell you that he is on probation for a crime.
The person has not received an answer to prayer that Joseph Smith was a prophet.
The person smoked a cigarette two days ago.
The person is not sure that she has received an answer to her prayers.
The family felt pressure from friends and are not sure they are ready for baptism.
Review the Baptism and Confirmation Form.
Why should the information you provide be correct and complete?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Review the importance of the baptismal interview.
Discuss how missionaries can help people prepare for the interview.
Discuss how to use baptismal services and confirmations as finding opportunities.
Mission Leaders and Mission Counselors
Work with local priesthood and organization leaders to make sure they are using the Covenant Path Progress report effectively.
Teach district leaders, zone leaders, and sister training leaders how to prepare people for the baptismal interview.
Invite them to train other missionaries to prepare people for this interview.
Teach district and zone leaders how to conduct baptismal interviews.
Teach how to respond in a baptismal interview when a person reveals that he or she has committed a serious sin.
When possible, attend baptismal services for new members.
Talk with the new members and learn about their conversion experiences.
Share what you learn with your companion and with the missionaries.
