Consider This
How can I develop attributes that will make me a more powerful and effective minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ?
How will developing Christlike attributes help me fulfill my purpose as a missionary?
Which attribute do I most need to develop?
At the beginning of His mortal ministry, Jesus Christ walked along the shore of the sea of Galilee and called out to two fishermen, Peter and Andrew.
“Follow me,” He said, “and I will make you fishers of men” (
Matthew 4:19
; see also
Mark 1:17
).
The Lord has also called you to His work, and He invites you to follow Him.
The invitation to follow Christ is an invitation to follow His example and to become like Him, which can only happen through the Atonement of Jesus Christ (see
Mosiah 3:19
).
Some chapters in
Preach My Gospel
focus on what you need to do as a missionary—how to study, how to teach, how to manage time wisely.
Just as vital as what you do, however, is who you are and who you are becoming.
This is part of what it means to endure to the end through increasing your faith in Christ, continuing regularly to repent of your sins by relying upon Christ, renewing your covenants with the Father and the Son through partaking of the sacrament regularly, and following the promptings of the Holy Ghost in all things.
The restored gospel enables you to become like Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ.
The Savior has shown the way.
He has set the perfect example, and He commands us to become as He is (see
3 Nephi 27:27
).
Learn of Him and seek to incorporate His attributes into your life.
Through the power of His Atonement, you can achieve this goal and lead others to achieve it also.
The scriptures describe Christlike attributes that are essential for you to eventually develop as a missionary and throughout your life.
Study the scripture passages in this chapter and look for other examples of Christlike attributes as you study other passages.
Christlike attributes are gifts from God.
They come as you use your agency righteously.
Ask your Heavenly Father to bless you with these attributes; you cannot develop them without His help.
With a desire to please God, recognize your weaknesses and be willing and anxious to improve.
Scripture Study
What do these scriptures say about following Jesus Christ’s example?
3 Nephi 12:48
3 Nephi 27:21, 27
John 13:1–16
1 Peter 2:21
What is the relationship between the first principles of the gospel and Christlike attributes?
Moroni 8:25–26
