Consider This
Why is it important to study the gospel?
How will my study affect those I teach?
Why do I need to continually treasure up the doctrine of the gospel of Jesus Christ?
How can I effectively learn the doctrine of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ and prepare to teach others?
How can I improve my personal and companion study?
The Lord has said, “Seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men” (
Doctrine and Covenants 11:21
).
To teach effectively, you need to obtain spiritual knowledge.
For you to grow in the gospel and stay on the path that leads to eternal life, you need to develop a habit of gospel study (see
Doctrine and Covenants 131:6
).
The study habits you develop as a missionary will bless you personally and help those you teach grow in their faith in the Savior.
Effective daily study should begin with prayer.
Study is an act of faith requiring the use of personal agency.
Many missionaries struggle to know how to study effectively.
Some rely heavily on others or on structured programs to tell them what and how to study.
While learning from a good teacher is very important, it is more important for you to have meaningful learning experiences on your own.
Getting good results from your study depends on having a strong desire to learn, studying with “real intent” (
Moroni 10:4
), “hunger[ing] and thirst[ing] after righteousness” (
Matthew 5:6
), and searching for answers to the questions and concerns of those you are teaching.
Activity: Personal Study
Look at the picture of Joseph Smith on the previous page.
Read Joseph Smith—History 1:11–13 .
Answer the following questions in your study journal.
How did Joseph Smith’s reading and pondering of James 1:5 lead him to receive revelation?
What influence did his study have on future generations?
What effect has his decision to study and seek had in your life?
How has your gospel study influenced your life and the lives of others?
Scripture Study
How does the Lord want us to approach gospel study?
2 Nephi 4:15–16
2 Nephi 32:3
Doctrine and Covenants 58:26–28
Doctrine and Covenants 88:118
