Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Rate yourself on the following (1=never, 3=some of the time, and 5=almost always).
I think about the people I am teaching when I study.
Throughout the day I think about what I studied in the morning.
As I study, ideas come to my mind that have not occurred to me before.
I record spiritual impressions and ideas in an appropriate place.
I fall asleep as I study.
I look forward to personal study.
I look forward to companion study.
Review your responses.
What are you doing well?
Do you wish any of your responses were different?
Set one or two goals that will improve the quality of your study.
Review the “ Consider This ” questions at the beginning of this chapter.
How do these questions influence your study?
Review the “ Study Ideas and Suggestions .” Identify one suggestion from each category that you have not used, and try these ideas during your personal study.
Read Doctrine and Covenants 138:1–11 and answer the following questions:
What did President Smith have to do for his mind to be opened?
How did he feel about the doctrine he was thinking about?
Read the definition of knowledge in the Bible Dictionary and the scripture references listed.
In your study journal, write an answer to the question “What knowledge can help me serve effectively as a missionary?”
Select doctrine from chapter 3 that you would like to understand and teach.
In your study journal, write questions you would like to be able to answer.
Carefully study that doctrine for a period of time and pray specifically for increased understanding.
Write what you learn.
As you read 1 Nephi 10:17 ; 11:1–6 , answer the question “Why was Nephi able to learn what his father knew?”
Companion Study
Read together the following passages.
Answer the question “Why should we seek divine light?”
Doctrine and Covenants 11:11–14
Doctrine and Covenants 84:43–47
John 8:12
Psalm 119:105
Discuss with your companion what you are learning in your personal study.
Help each other grow spiritually by learning and sharing together.
Read together several of the passages below, and discuss blessings that come from studying the word of God.
Which passages would best help those you teach?
1 Nephi 10:19
2 Nephi 32:3
Mosiah 1:6–7
Alma 17:2–3
Alma 32:42–43
Alma 37:44–46
Alma 49:30
Doctrine and Covenants 90:24
Doctrine and Covenants 130:19
TG, “ Scriptures, study of ” and “ Scriptures, value of ,” 452–53
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Select a topic from one of the missionary lessons that you have carefully studied.
Do the following:
Share two or three main points you learned from your study that have been helpful in teaching that lesson.
Describe the way you approached your study that helped you discover these points (how you studied, resources you used, questions you were researching, and so on).
Show how you recorded and organized the results of your study.
If time permits, ask a few other missionaries to do the same.
This activity may be done individually or in small groups.
Instruct the missionaries to select one of the following questions (or you may create some of your own questions).
Have them write the question down.
Why are families so important in God’s plan?
Why do people have trials and suffering?
What is the role of the Spirit in conversion?
Explain that they will have five to seven minutes to:
Find at least two scripture references that answer the question.
Write a simple interpretation of how the scriptures they chose answer the question.
Describe what they would do to remember the answer.
Describe what they would do to explore the question more deeply.
Invite a few missionaries (or each group) to share their answers.
Discuss their responses.
Ask the missionaries to write one or two questions about the gospel principles and doctrine from one of the lessons in chapter 3 for which they would like to find an answer.
Invite the missionaries to share their questions with the group.
For each question, discuss the following:
How could answering this question bless the life of the missionary?
How could it bless the lives of the people they are teaching?
How could a missionary find the answer?
Ask several missionaries to share a gospel principle that their companions have taught them.
Ask them to explain the principle and how their companion taught it to them.
Organize missionaries into companionships or small groups.
Assign each group to read one chapter from the Book of Mormon.
Have each group select one idea from each of the categories in the section “ Study Ideas and Suggestions .” Invite group members to apply their chosen suggestion as they study their chapter together.
Allow 15 to 20 minutes for reading and discussion.
Then have each group explain the suggestions they used, how well the suggestions worked, and what they learned.
Invite each missionary to think of a story or event in the scriptures that has meaning to him or her (such as Lehi’s vision of the tree of life , King Benjamin’s sermon , the Sermon on the Mount , or Christ’s appearance to the Nephites ).
Invite the missionaries to sketch or describe how they visualize the accounts they have chosen.
Invite two or three missionaries to share what they visualize.
Ask others to tell the stories and relate them to the doctrine in one of the lessons.
Read Moroni 10:3 and discuss the value of pondering deeply about spiritual knowledge.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
From time to time, join missionaries in their companion study.
Invite missionaries to bring their study journals to interviews.
Invite them to share one entry with you.
During interviews or in conversations, ask some of the following questions:
What impressions have you had recently in your scripture study?
What is one gospel principle that your companion has recently taught you?
What chapter or section of this manual has helped you most in the past two weeks?
What are you doing in your personal study that helps you learn the most?
During zone conferences or mission leadership council, invite missionaries to share meaningful experiences they have had in their personal and companion study.
During zone conferences or mission leadership council, allow missionaries to share personal study ideas.
Share with missionaries insights you have had in your personal study.
Share entries from your study journal and your testimony of the importance of gospel study.
During interviews or in conversations, invite missionaries to share one of their lesson plans from one of the missionary lessons.
Ask them what this doctrine means to them.
