Strengthening New and Returning Members
When converts are baptized and confirmed, they make sacred promises to obey and serve God and others for the rest of their lives.
They become candidates for salvation in the celestial kingdom.
To receive the promised blessings, they must endure to the end with faith in Jesus Christ.
Church members are essential in helping new converts remain active and faithful.
President Gordon B.
Hinckley said: “There is absolutely no point in doing missionary work unless we hold on to the fruits of that effort.
The two must be inseparable.
… Every convert is a great and serious responsibility” (“ Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep ,” Ensign, May 1999, 108).
Under the direction of the bishop, the ward council has first responsibility for strengthening new members and returning members.
They make sure that new converts and returning members have friends, are nourished by the word of God, and receive callings and responsibilities.
They may request that full-time missionaries help minister to and visit new members, returning members, and prospective elders.
Preferably you will be paired with a member for such visits.
You are also responsible for these people.
President Hinckley said: “You missionaries … are part of this responsibility of binding your converts to the Church.
You may not be able to continue to visit them.
But you can write to them occasionally and give them encouragement.
… When you go home do not forget them.
At all times live worthy of their trust.
Write to them occasionally, assuring them of your love” (“ Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep ,” 109).
When attending Church meetings, you and your companion should sit with visitors or members you have been fellowshipping to support and strengthen them.
You should not sit in a group with other missionaries.
A vital part of your mission is to establish the Church and strengthen the unit in which you serve.
You do this in part by helping new converts remain active and by helping returning members become active.
One of your duties is to lead out in teaching all five missionary lessons to new members after baptism and, when appropriate, to returning members.
Ward missionaries and ministering brothers and sisters can also help teach these principles.
President Gordon B.
Hinckley related the following concerning the challenges many new converts face:
I received the other day a very interesting letter.
It was written by a woman who joined the Church a year ago.
She writes:
“My journey into the Church was unique and quite challenging.
This past year has been the hardest year that I have ever lived in my life.
It has also been the most rewarding.
As a new member, I continue to be challenged every day.”
She goes on to say that when she joined the Church she did not feel support from the leadership in her ward.
Her bishop seemed indifferent to her as a new member.
Rebuffed, as she felt, she turned back to her mission president, who opened opportunities for her.
She states that “Church members don’t know what it is like to be a new member.
… Therefore, it’s almost impossible for them to know how to support us.”
I challenge you, my brothers and sisters, that if you do not know what it is like, you try to imagine what it is like.
It can be terribly lonely.
It can be disappointing.
It can be frightening.
We of this Church are far more different from the world than we are prone to think we are.
This woman goes on: “When we … become members of the Church, we are surprised to discover that we have entered into a completely foreign world, a world that has its own traditions, culture, and language.
We discover that there is no one person or no one place of reference that we can turn to for guidance in our trip into this new world.
At first the trip is exciting, our mistakes even amusing, then it becomes frustrating and eventually, the frustration turns into anger.
And it’s at these stages of frustration and anger that we leave.
We go back to the world from which we came, where we knew who we were, where we contributed, and where we could speak the language” [“ Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep ,” 108].
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Read the previous account.
Write answers to the following questions in your study journal, or discuss them with your companion.
Make appropriate goals and plans.
According to this account, what are some of the factors that make it difficult for new members to remain active?
How can having members involved from the beginning of the teaching process help with these challenges?
Think of the people you are teaching.
How can members help them begin to make the social transition into the Church?
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
Read the previous account.
Write answers to the following questions in your study journal, or discuss them with your companion.
Make appropriate goals and plans.
According to this account, what are some of the factors that make it difficult for new members to remain active?
How can having members involved from the beginning of the teaching process help with these challenges?
Think of the people you are teaching.
How can members help them begin to make the social transition into the Church?
