What Are the Responsibilities of Stake and Ward Leaders?
Local Church leaders and members are your best allies.
Respect them and strive to build good relationships with them.
As you work with these leaders, remember that they have other responsibilities associated with their callings.
Seek to be a blessing, not a burden, to the leaders of your stake and ward.
Your attitude should be one of “How can we help?” Counsel with the bishop and ward mission leader concerning your plans and activities.
Make sure that what you do supports the ward mission plan.
The roles of local priesthood leadership in missionary work are described below.
Understanding their roles will help you better work with them.
Stake President
The stake president oversees bishops in their missionary, retention, and activation responsibilities.
In his monthly interview with bishops, he discusses plans and the progress of members and those being taught by missionaries.
He ensures that the doctrine relating to missionary work is taught regularly in stake and ward meetings and that priesthood leaders and others are trained in their missionary responsibilities.
The stake president also meets regularly with the mission president to coordinate missionary efforts, including the training of leaders and members, use and placement of full-time missionaries, and assistance in activation efforts.
High Councilor
A high councilor is assigned by the stake presidency to promote missionary, retention, and activation work in the stake.
He regularly reports the progress of this work to the stake presidency.
He also ensures that ward mission leaders are properly trained in their duties, including the preparation of a ward mission plan.
Bishop
The bishop is responsible for missionary, retention, and activation efforts in the ward.
His personal participation and leadership are essential.
To help accomplish this work, the bishop calls a worthy Melchizedek Priesthood holder to serve as the ward mission leader.
He also calls a sufficient number of ward missionaries to meet the needs in the ward.
The bishop uses the ward council to coordinate missionary, retention, and activation efforts.
He gives direction to developing and carrying out a ward mission plan.
Activity: Companion Study
Plan a time to meet with the bishop.
Seek his guidance on how you can best serve in the ward.
Activity: Companion Study
Plan a time to meet with the bishop.
Seek his guidance on how you can best serve in the ward.
Priesthood and Auxiliary Leaders
Priesthood and auxiliary leaders should regularly review the status of new members and returning members and plan how to best fellowship and strengthen them.
They should also work closely with the ward mission leader to coordinate missionary, retention, and activation efforts with ward missionaries and full-time missionaries.
Ward Mission Leader
Under the direction of the bishop, the ward mission leader:
Sets an example in sharing the gospel with others, including new converts and returning members.
Coordinates the work of the ward missionaries and full-time missionaries with priesthood leaders, auxiliary leaders, and members.
Uses the Progress Record, the Action and Interview List, and the New and Returning Member Progress form to review the progress of people the missionaries are teaching in ward council meetings.
These reports are created using Leader and Clerk Resources online.
They are used to track the progress of new converts and other members.
Conducts weekly missionary coordination meetings.
Organizes convert baptismal services in the ward in cooperation with the full-time missionaries.
A member of the bishopric or the ward mission leader usually conducts these services.
The ward mission leader also serves on the ward council and attends stake priesthood leadership meetings.
Ward Missionaries
Qualified brothers and sisters are called to serve as ward missionaries.
They are supervised by the ward mission leader.
Ward missionaries find, fellowship, and teach people.
They also instruct and fellowship new converts and returning members.
A ward missionary holding the Melchizedek Priesthood may be called to serve as an assistant ward mission leader.
Missionary Coordination
Ward missionary work is normally coordinated in ward council meetings through use of the Progress Record.
The missionary objective of these meetings is to report, plan, and coordinate assignments to find, teach, fellowship, and activate as outlined in the following paragraphs.
Finding People to Teach.
The ward council discusses plans for preparing specific people to be taught by the full-time missionaries.
Members of the ward council discuss the progress of specific ward members in preparing individuals and families for the missionary lessons.
Teaching and Baptizing.
The ward council reviews the Progress Record each week, which describes the progress of each person being taught by the full-time missionaries.
Members of the ward council also coordinate plans for teaching in members’ homes, fellowshipping those being taught, and ensuring member participation at baptismal services.
Fellowshipping and Teaching New Members.
The ward council reviews the New and Returning Member Progress form to monitor the progress of each new member.
Members of the ward council also discuss how to fellowship new members.
As requested by the bishop, they recommend potential callings for new converts.
Fellowshipping and Teaching Returning Members.
The ward council coordinates activation efforts of the elders quorum and the full-time missionaries.
Members of the ward council also plan how to fellowship returning members, especially by inviting them to Church meetings and activities.
Additional Coordination with the Ward Mission Leader
Missionary work in the ward is normally coordinated in ward council meetings.
If additional coordination is necessary, the ward mission leader may hold missionary coordination meetings with the full-time missionaries.
Others who may be invited to attend this meeting include ward missionaries, a counselor from the elders quorum presidency, and a counselor from the Relief Society presidency.
Those attending the meeting may review and report on assignments and goals from the previous meeting and discuss plans for the coming week.
As needed, they may also coordinate the assignments of ward missionaries to work with full-time missionaries and discuss how to make the combined efforts of ward missionaries and full-time missionaries more effective.
Ward Mission Plan
Bishops of many wards have found that developing a ward mission plan promotes ward missionary work.
Such a plan may include goals, initiatives, and activities to help ward members invite people to hear the gospel.
Individuals and families also benefit from developing such a plan to guide their missionary efforts.
Members should use every honorable means to find people who are willing to listen to the message of the Restoration.
They should emphasize finding fathers, mothers, and children who will come into the Church as families.
Following are some suggestions for bishops to consider in developing a mission plan.
Pray that the Lord will prepare the hearts of specific people to hear the gospel.
Pray also to be sensitive to those whom He is preparing (see Alma 6:6 ).
“It will be a great day,” taught President Gordon B.
Hinckley, “when our people not only pray for the missionaries throughout the world, but ask the Lord to help them to assist the missionaries who are laboring in their own ward” (“Missionary Service,” First Worldwide Leadership Training Meeting, Jan.
2003, 19).
Be aware of opportunities to reach out to others.
Be neighborly and reach out in love to all people.
Ask friends and neighbors to serve alongside members in such things as providing community service, providing meals to those in need, teaching workshops in weekday Relief Society meetings, helping with ward activities, helping people move, assisting with youth activities, and helping with family history or welfare projects.
Invite nonmember relatives, friends, and neighbors to baptisms, confirmations, and priesthood ordinations.
Invite nonmembers to assist in special events, such as a breakfast on a national holiday.
Make ward meetings, activities, devotionals, and open houses enjoyable and uplifting so that members feel eager to invite acquaintances to attend.
Invite people to home evenings.
Visit people who are experiencing changes in their lives, such as marriages, births, or deaths.
Visit and help people who are moving into the neighborhood.
Share information about the community, the neighborhood, and the Church.
Take every opportunity to talk about the gospel.
Discuss such topics as the Savior, the Book of Mormon, the Bible, the purpose of life, the family, and family history.
Encourage youth to befriend other youth and invite them to Church meetings and activities.
Work with part-member families.
Plan spiritually uplifting sacrament meetings.
Activity: Companion Study
With your companion, read and discuss “ Church Organization ” under Gospel Topics on the Church’s website.
Share with your companion and write in your study journal what you learned.
Discuss how your insights will influence the way you approach your work with Church leaders.
Activity: Companion Study
With your companion, read and discuss “ Church Organization ” under Gospel Topics on the Church’s website.
Share with your companion and write in your study journal what you learned.
Discuss how your insights will influence the way you approach your work with Church leaders.
