Work with the Ward Council to Strengthen New and Returning Members
Image Christ helping children across river
© 1999 Greg K.
Olsen.
Courtesy Mill Pond Press.
Do not copy.
© 1999 Greg K.
Olsen.
Courtesy Mill Pond Press.
Do not copy.
Teaching and baptizing new converts is under the direction of your mission president.
However, the work of proclaiming the gospel will move forward more powerfully when full-time missionaries and members coordinate their efforts and work in unity together.
You may often be invited to attend ward council meetings.
However, your first priority is to make sure that the people you are teaching are at church.
Frequently this will mean that you will accompany them.
If there is a conflict between attending ward council meeting and getting someone to church, do the latter.
In this case, provide a copy of the Progress Record to the ward mission leader and ensure that he has all the information needed for ward council.
President Gordon B.
Hinckley said:
“Every new convert needs three things:
A friend in the Church to whom he can constantly turn, who will walk beside him, who will answer his questions, who will understand his problems.
An assignment.
Activity is the genius of this Church.
It is the process by which we grow.
Faith and love for the Lord are like the muscle of my arm.
If I use them, they grow stronger.
If I put them in a sling, they become weaker.
Every convert deserves a responsibility.
…
Every convert must be ‘nourished by the good word of God’ ( Moro.
6:4 ).
It is imperative that he or she become affiliated with a priesthood quorum or the Relief Society, the Young Women, the Young Men, the Sunday School, or the Primary.
He or she must be encouraged to come to sacrament meeting to partake of the sacrament, to renew the covenants made at the time of baptism” (“ Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep ,” 108).
The ward council will take the lead in providing a friend, responsibility, and spiritual nourishment for new converts.
You will help them as requested.
Priesthood leaders and members will do the fellowshipping, with your assistance.
Friendship
Before baptism and confirmation, ensure that members are present at every lesson, if possible.
These members should be with the people you are teaching often to answer their questions, understand their challenges, and encourage them.
Invite members to attend the baptismal service and to welcome new converts into the ward.
Members help new converts feel comfortable in various Church meetings.
They should also introduce them to other members.
Introduce people you are teaching to the bishop, his counselors, elders quorum and Relief Society presidents, and other ward leaders as soon as possible.
Explain the roles of the bishop and other ward leaders.
After someone is baptized and confirmed, ask ward leaders to assign them ministering brothers and ministering sisters as needed.
Opportunities to Serve
Help male converts understand and prepare to receive the Aaronic Priesthood and the Melchizedek Priesthood.
Explain that priesthood quorums provide opportunities to learn, worship, and serve together.
Involve new converts and returning members in service opportunities such as helping a widow or someone who is ill or participating in welfare projects.
Refer converts to temple and family history consultants so that they can begin their family tree using the My Family booklet or FamilySearch.org .
Set a date for converts to prepare to be baptized in the temple for their deceased ancestors within a month of their own baptism or to share within that same time frame a family file card with someone who can attend.
Doing family history and attending the temple and performing ordinances for deceased ancestors significantly increases convert retention because it can strengthen faith in the Savior.
Invite converts to prepare family members and friends to be taught by the missionaries.
The missionaries should ask new converts and returning members for referrals.
Nourishment by the Word of God
Teach all the missionary lessons before and after baptism.
Following baptism, see what questions new members have and address them.
Adapt the missionary lesson invitations to the new members’ current needs.
Remind new converts and returning members of commitments they made before baptism and the covenant they made when they were baptized and confirmed.
Encourage them to pray daily, personally and with their families.
Encourage them to study the scriptures daily, especially the Book of Mormon.
Strengthen new converts’ testimonies of the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Continue to teach the importance of attending church each Sunday and worthily partaking of the sacrament.
Attend and sit with new converts or returning members.
Teach them how to hold home evening one night a week using resources such as the Church’s website, the Gospel Library, or the Church magazines.
Encourage them to share the restored gospel with others.
Help them enroll in seminary or institute classes.
Make them aware of Church resources.
Scripture Study
Nourish with God’s Word
Mosiah 18:18–20
Alma 31:5
Moroni 6:4
Service
Mosiah 2:17
Matthew 25:40
Topical Guide, “ Serve ” and “ Service ”
Scripture Study
Nourish with God’s Word
Mosiah 18:18–20
Alma 31:5
Moroni 6:4
Service
Mosiah 2:17
Matthew 25:40
Topical Guide, “ Serve ” and “ Service ”
