Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Using your daily planner or digital tools, make plans to talk to new converts and recently returned members about changing their lives and attending church.
What has helped them most?
In your study journal, write your thoughts about their experiences.
What have you learned that will help you in working with those you are currently teaching?
Study 2 Nephi 31:18–20 ; Alma 26:1–7 and 32:32–43 ; and Moroni 6 .
Write what you learn from these verses about strengthening new converts.
Companion Study
During ward council meeting, ask the bishop if there are any returning members in your area he would like you to visit this week.
As you visit these people, seek to build their faith in Jesus Christ.
Ask them for referrals.
Study 1 Corinthians 3:2 ; Hebrews 5:12 ; and Doctrine and Covenants 19:22 .
What is the milk that is referred to?
What is the meat?
Compare your answers with the doctrine in the chapter “ What Do I Study and Teach?
” Why must you provide the milk and the meat in the right sequence and in the right amount?
How do you do that?
Read the following quotation, in which President Joseph F.
Smith describes his feelings at the time of his baptism:
“The feeling that came upon me was that of pure peace, of love and of light.
I felt in my soul that if I had sinned—and surely I was not without sin—that it had been forgiven me; that I was indeed cleansed from sin; my heart was touched, and I felt that I would not injure the smallest insect beneath my feet.
I felt as if I wanted to do good everywhere to everybody and to everything.
I felt a newness of life, a newness of desire to do that which was right.
There was not one particle of desire for evil left in my soul.
… This was the influence that came upon me, and I know that it was from God, and was and ever has been a living witness to me of my acceptance of the Lord” ( Gospel Doctrine, 5th ed.
[1939], 96).
Now read what President Smith said about his feelings long after his baptism:
“Oh!
that I could have kept that same spirit and that same earnest desire in my heart every moment of my life from [the day of my baptism] to this.
Yet many of us who have received that witness, that new birth, that change of heart, while we may have erred in judgment or have made many mistakes, and often perhaps come short of the true standard in our lives, we have repented of the evil, and we have sought from time to time forgiveness at the hand of the Lord; so that until this day the same desire and purpose which pervaded our souls when we were baptized and received a remission of our sins, still holds possession of our hearts, and is still the ruling sentiment and passion of our souls” ( Gospel Doctrine, 96).
What did you personally learn from President Smith about your own testimony and commitment to live the gospel?
What did you learn about the difficulties that new converts, even future prophets, face following baptism?
Thinking of recent converts and returning members, what can you do to help them retain or regain the “desire and purpose” they once had?
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Invite a bishop to talk about the challenges of working with returning members and new converts.
Ask him to emphasize how missionaries can help with these challenges.
Discuss the parables of the lost sheep, the lost coin, and the prodigal son (see Luke 15 ).
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Work with local priesthood leaders to encourage them to help new converts:
Be ordained to the priesthood.
Be assigned ministering brothers and ministering sisters, as needed.
Prepare the name of an ancestor to take to the temple and to perform baptisms for the dead.
Receive all five missionary lessons with ministering brothers, ministering sisters, or other members present.
Teach local leaders how to use missionaries in ward council.
Teach local leaders the purpose and uses of the Progress Record.
Occasionally ask missionaries to show you a copy of their Progress Record.
Occasionally follow up with recent converts to find out how they are doing and how missionaries and members can be of help.
Invite stake or ward leaders to speak to your missionaries to explain how the missionaries can be of greatest help.
Invite recent converts to speak to missionaries and relate their experiences as new members of the Church.
Occasionally ask members who are converts to share their conversion experience in a zone conference.
