The Resurrection, Salvation, and Exaltation
When our bodies and spirits are reunited through the Resurrection, we will be brought into God’s presence to be judged.
We will remember perfectly our righteousness and our guilt.
If we have repented, we will receive mercy.
We will be rewarded according to our works and our desires.
Salvation
Through the Savior’s Atonement and Resurrection all people will be saved, or gain salvation, from physical death.
They will be resurrected and become immortal—that is, they will live forever.
Immortality is a free, or unconditional, gift to all people, whether they are righteous or wicked.
People may also be saved, or gain salvation, from individual spiritual death through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, by their faith in Him, by living in obedience to the laws and ordinances of His gospel, and by serving Him.
Eternal life and exaltation are not the same as immortality.
President Russell M.
Nelson taught, “In God’s eternal plan, salvation is an individual matter; exaltation is a family matter” (“ Salvation and Exaltation ,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2008, 10).
Exaltation
Exaltation, or celestial glory, is the highest state of happiness and glory in the celestial kingdom.
Exaltation is a conditional gift.
President Nelson has taught, “Those qualifying conditions include faith in the Lord, repentance, baptism, receiving the Holy Ghost, and remaining faithful to the ordinances and covenants of the temple” (“ Salvation and Exaltation ,” 9).
Exaltation means living with God forever in eternal families.
It is to know God and Jesus Christ and to experience the life They enjoy.
Resurrection and Reincarnation
Some people may confuse the doctrine of Resurrection with the concept of reincarnation.
The human teaching of reincarnation, that we are born into the world again in a different form, is not true or scriptural.
The doctrine of Resurrection involves receiving an eternal reward of an immortal body of flesh and bone.
This is true doctrine.
Make sure those you teach clearly understand the doctrine of the Resurrection.
Resurrection and Reincarnation
Some people may confuse the doctrine of Resurrection with the concept of reincarnation.
The human teaching of reincarnation, that we are born into the world again in a different form, is not true or scriptural.
The doctrine of Resurrection involves receiving an eternal reward of an immortal body of flesh and bone.
This is true doctrine.
Make sure those you teach clearly understand the doctrine of the Resurrection.
