Talk with Everyone
While the Prophet Joseph Smith was traveling with a group of missionaries on the Missouri River, the Lord revealed, “It is not needful for … mine elders to be moving swiftly … whilst the inhabitants on either side are perishing in unbelief” ( Doctrine and Covenants 61:3 ).
As you move swiftly to planned activities, pray for the ability to see unplanned opportunities to serve and teach those who may be “perishing in unbelief.” Pray for the spiritual sensitivity to recognize opportunities.
You will find that God will place in your path His children who are being prepared to receive the restored gospel.
Nothing happens in missionary work until you find someone to teach.
Talk with as many people as you can each day.
It is natural to be somewhat apprehensive about talking to people, but you can pray for the faith and strength to be more bold in opening your mouth to proclaim the restored gospel.
Try applying the following ideas as you seek to talk with everyone you meet:
Trust the Spirit to put into your heart and mind what to teach.
Listen sincerely to what people say to you.
Be warm, authentic, friendly, and cheerful.
Offer to help.
Talk to people about their families.
Help them see how the restored gospel can be a blessing to their families.
Offer to help them find the names of grandparents, great-grandparents, or other ancestors.
Enlist the help of ward temple and family history consultants.
Invite everyone to learn about the restored gospel.
Offer pass-along cards.
Ask for the names of people’s acquaintances who might be interested in your message.
As you read the following true account, look for how the man was prepared to receive the missionaries and how the missionaries used an unplanned opportunity to teach him the gospel.
As a child, I was never taught to read the Bible.
I went to church on Sundays, but I contributed nothing and felt nothing in return.
I was disillusioned.
… I searched for … God—wanting to know if He even existed.
I thirsted to know Him and His words.
But I could not seem to find what I sought.
There were moments when I felt close to quenching my thirst.
When I held my first child, a daughter, in my arms for the first time, I had a feeling that God really did exist.
Many years later, when her sister was born, I experienced the same feeling.
… Most of the time, however, an inexplicable tiredness weighed upon my soul.
I was spiritually thirsty and could find no place to drink.
In April 1994 I was living in the city of Monterrey, Mexico, earning a living as a taxi driver.
One day it rained for hours, sending water cascading down the mountainsides.
After driving around in the rain for hours, I found myself in a little town about eight kilometers (five miles) from Monterrey.
It was about … nearly time to go home.
Suddenly I saw two young men on foot.
They were wearing dark trousers and white shirts, and they looked drenched from head to foot.
When I approached them, I opened the door of the taxi and called, “Get in!
I’m going to Monterrey.”
The taller one … replied, “We don’t have any money.”
“No charge,” I replied.
They quickly got into the taxi.
As I drove, we talked.
They asked if they could share a message about Jesus Christ with me.
I agreed and gave them my address.
When I got home, I woke my wife and told her about the two young men.
“What a coincidence,” I said.
“One is Mexican and the other is American, and they are both named Elder.”
“Elder means missionary,” my wife answered, knowing just a little about the Church.
From deep within me, I felt something stir.
These young men had left a feeling of exquisite wonder in my heart.
I felt that I was close to finding the water that would quench my thirst, that it was within reach.
The missionaries came to our home on 5 June, and I was happy to listen to them.
Two weeks later, on 19 June, I was baptized.
My wife was baptized four months later, in October [, as was my daughter].
In December 1995 we were sealed as a family in the Mexico City Mexico Temple for this life and for eternity.
Now we are a family enjoying harmony, peace, and happiness.
We know who we worship.
We know where we came from and where we are going.
We love God’s word, especially the Book of Mormon, and we love His Church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Through these gifts we have found that well of living water the Savior spoke of to the woman of Samaria: “Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life” ( John 4:14 ).
[Victor Manuel Cabrera, “ Thirsting for the Living Water ,” Ensign, Aug.
2001, 60–61]
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
How had the man been prepared for the restored gospel?
What would have happened if the elders had never opened their mouths to share a gospel message?
Review what you did yesterday.
Did you talk with as many people as possible?
If not, make plans and set goals to do so today.
Activity: Personal or Companion Study
How had the man been prepared for the restored gospel?
What would have happened if the elders had never opened their mouths to share a gospel message?
Review what you did yesterday.
Did you talk with as many people as possible?
If not, make plans and set goals to do so today.
Scripture Study
What does the Lord say about opening your mouth?
What should you teach?
What are you promised?
Doctrine and Covenants 24:12
Doctrine and Covenants 28:16
Doctrine and Covenants 33:7–15
Doctrine and Covenants 60:2–3, 7–8
Scripture Study
What does the Lord say about opening your mouth?
What should you teach?
What are you promised?
Doctrine and Covenants 24:12
Doctrine and Covenants 28:16
Doctrine and Covenants 33:7–15
Doctrine and Covenants 60:2–3, 7–8
