Teach When You Find, Find When You Teach
Finding and teaching are related, connected activities.
When you meet people, be prepared to teach brief summaries of restored truth so that the Holy Ghost can bear witness that you are the servants of the Lord.
In many situations, you will need to be able to share a message in a minute or less.
People are accustomed to short, powerful statements.
For example, you may testify of the message of the Restoration in just two or three sentences:
After centuries of being lost, original truths of God (the gospel of Jesus Christ) have been restored by a loving God through a living prophet.
We have evidence of this that you can hold in your hands, read, ponder in your heart, and pray about to learn its truth for yourself.
Will you allow us to …
If a little more time is available, you might say more:
Our message is simple.
God is our Father.
We are His children.
We are part of His family.
He loves us.
From the beginning of the world, He has followed a pattern of love and concern.
Many times He has reached out in love to reveal the gospel of Jesus Christ so that His children can know how to return to Him.
He has revealed it to prophets such as Adam, Noah, Abraham, and Moses.
But some people have repeatedly chosen to reject that gospel.
Two thousand years ago, Jesus Christ Himself taught His gospel.
Incredibly, people even rejected Jesus.
Whenever people disregard or distort true doctrine and ordinances, God withdraws His authority to administer the Church.
Our invitation to you is to add to the truths you already treasure.
Consider the evidence that our Heavenly Father has again reached out to His children in love and revealed the true doctrine and ordinances to a prophet.
This prophet’s name is Joseph Smith.
The evidence of this glorious truth is found in a book—the Book of Mormon.
You can hold it in your hands, read it, and ponder its truth in your mind and heart.
Develop the habit of beginning to teach and testify as you meet people.
You will find more people to teach as you testify and allow them to feel the power of the Holy Ghost.
Whatever your initial approach, refer quickly and simply to the Restoration of the gospel, for this is our unique message to the world.
Those you teach often have friends or relatives who are prepared to receive the restored gospel.
In all teaching situations—such as finding, teaching people, and working with members—ask, “Who do you know who would be interested in and benefit from this message?” After receiving a referral, ask, “Who else can benefit from our message?” Do not hesitate to bring this up again and again in later meetings.
As those you teach experience the blessings of the gospel, their desire to share it will increase (see 1 Nephi 8:12 ).
They will often make new friends while learning the gospel.
Missionaries who apply this principle usually have many people to teach.
Activity: Companion Study
Prepare a one-minute message based on one of the lessons.
Think of ways to teach this lesson in a finding setting.
Determine how you can quickly connect this message to the Restoration.
Share the message with your companion.
Set a goal to teach this message at an appropriate time today to add someone new to your teaching pool.
Review a list of people you are currently teaching.
Make a list of those you have asked for referrals and those you have not asked.
Practice how you will extend a referral invitation to those in each group.
In your planner, make a note to extend this invitation in your next visits.
Activity: Companion Study
Prepare a one-minute message based on one of the lessons.
Think of ways to teach this lesson in a finding setting.
Determine how you can quickly connect this message to the Restoration.
Share the message with your companion.
Set a goal to teach this message at an appropriate time today to add someone new to your teaching pool.
Review a list of people you are currently teaching.
Make a list of those you have asked for referrals and those you have not asked.
Practice how you will extend a referral invitation to those in each group.
In your planner, make a note to extend this invitation in your next visits.
