People Who Have Been Taught Previously
People who have been taught previously are a valuable source for finding people to teach.
There are many reasons why people stop meeting with missionaries.
Reasons include missionaries being transferred, people going on vacation, missionaries stopping visits even though people are still expecting visits, and people believing that the missionaries have nothing new to teach them.
Many people who have been taught previously say they would meet with missionaries again.
Review your area book often to identify people who have been taught previously.
Prayerfully reflect on the information in the area book concerning how each person first came in contact with the Church, what they have been taught, how they have responded, and why they stopped receiving the lessons.
If members have been involved in teaching and fellowshipping these people, ask the members what they remember about the experience.
Based on this information, make plans to contact the person again.
If someone you are teaching chooses to stop learning about the gospel, record information in the area book that will be helpful for the missionaries who will contact them in the future.
As you read the following experience, consider the power of contacting people who were taught previously.
Much to my surprise, I was called to labor in the same mission where my older sister had served a year earlier.
After a few months in the mission field, I was transferred to one of the areas where my sister had served.
Upon learning of my transfer, my sister wrote and asked me to visit a family that she and her companion had taught.
She expressed the love and closeness she had with the Norman family and how disappointed she was when they discontinued investigating the Church.
My companion and I located the Normans and were warmly received by them.
They accepted our invitation to again hear the restored gospel.
I’m not sure what the difference was this time, but they were fully ready to accept our message.
The entire family was baptized and confirmed.
After this experience, I wondered about other [people] my sister had worked with.
I thought, “If it worked for the Normans, maybe it will work for other people she taught as well.” I decided to write my sister about the idea of contacting other people she had taught.
She went through her journal and sent me the names of other [people] in the area.
My companion and I spent the next week contacting these people.
To our delight, almost half of them accepted an invitation to hear the restored gospel again.
Several of this group were baptized and confirmed.
While meeting with these [people], we also asked them for referrals of their friends and acquaintances that would be interested in our message.
As a result, we found additional people to teach.
This was the busiest time of my mission.
Activity: Companion Study
Identify all the people who have been taught previously in your area book.
Make plans to contact them as soon as possible.
Activity: Companion Study
Identify all the people who have been taught previously in your area book.
Make plans to contact them as soon as possible.
