Finding through Your Own Efforts
Seek to strengthen your faith that God is preparing His children to receive the message of the Restoration.
As you do all you can under the guidance of the Holy Ghost to find people to teach, the Lord will place such people in your path.
There are many honorable ways to find those being prepared for the restored gospel.
You need to do all you can to be placed in the path of those who are being prepared.
Missionaries have found that the following ideas have helped them find people to teach through their own efforts.
As you review the list, make plans to try some of the ideas that are new to you.
This list also serves as a starting point for you in thinking of other honorable ways to find people to teach.
Work with the bishop and the ward council to identify and contact people who have recently had a baby, moved to the area, or experienced a death in the family.
Look for opportunities to offer simple service.
Teach members—including active members, returning members, recent converts, and part-member families—the message of the Restoration.
Ask them to introduce you to people you can teach.
Arrange to hold member devotionals to which they can bring their friends or in which you can teach the gospel and ask for referrals.
Offer to teach people how to hold home evening.
Offer to take those you meet on a tour of the local meetinghouse.
Offer to arrange a meeting with the bishop.
Invite people to visit Church-approved websites and online resources.
Organize a scripture study class.
Teach English as a second language.
Invite people of the appropriate age to attend seminary or institute.
Go from home to home or talk to people on the streets.
Use Church-approved print and digital resources, including uplifting media.
Seek referrals from the people you are currently teaching, people who have been taught previously, returning members, part-member families, prospective elders, and everyone you meet.
Invite people to Church meetings, activities, and open houses.
Invite people to baptismal services.
These provide an excellent introduction to the Church and afford good opportunities for people to feel the influence of the Spirit.
