Ideas for Study and Application
Personal Study
Read the following letter from a missionary to her parents: “I taught a wonderful lady on the bus.
We were coming back from district [council], and it was the only empty seat so I sat down and started to look at my mail.
Of course, the first one to be read was yours, with the baby pictures of Evan.
I noticed that the eyes next to me were also looking at the pictures, and I looked over to meet eyes with an older woman.
She gave me a half smile and looked out the window.
She then closed her eyes like she was going to sleep.
I prayed, ‘Heavenly Father, I want to talk to her.
Please help me.’ A minute later she opened her eyes and sat up straight, and I quickly said, ‘Don’t you think he is cute?’ I showed her the pictures of baby Evan and started talking about families with her.
I asked her about her kids, and she got teary-eyed and told me a story about how her daughter hates her and wants nothing to do with her.
She cried and I cried with her.
I told her about the plan of salvation and how Heavenly Father knows her and knows what she is going through.
I cried and told her that I know that her daughter loves her because I am a daughter of a mother that loves me, and I love her.
I explained that sometimes people make bad decisions and that her daughter has agency.
She told me, smiling, ‘I bet your mother really misses you, and she will not let you go when she sees you again.’ She thanked me for talking with her and gave me her address so that we can share the gospel with her.
As she was getting off the bus, she said, ‘I got on the wrong bus, but I didn’t get off.
No one sat by me until you came … and look what happened.’ God’s plan is perfect!”
What principles from this chapter do you see in this account?
Review the chapter and make a list in your study journal.
Which of these principles can you try to apply today?
Read John 15:12–13 ; 21:15–17 ; 1 Thessalonians 2 ; and Mosiah 18:8–10 .
How well are you fulfilling your responsibility to love and serve others?
How can you improve?
Write your response in your study journal.
How will people know that you are a servant of the Lord?
As you ponder this question, study Moroni 7:3–5 ; Matthew 7:20 ; and John 13:34–35 .
Record your thoughts in your study journal.
Read 3 Nephi 18:31–32 ; Alma 8:16 ; Alma 24:7–8 ; and Alma 32:41 .
Consider what these verses teach about working with people who were taught previously.
Record what you learn in your study journal and teach it to your companion.
Companion Study
Using your daily planner, make plans to meet with recent converts.
Ask them to share how they were prepared for the gospel.
Ask questions like these: When did you first come in contact with the Church?
What prompted you to meet with missionaries?
Write what you learn in your study journal.
Review each of the following topics.
Using the lessons, prepare a simple finding approach.
Practice teaching in a finding setting and quickly relating each topic to the Restoration.
Feeling a need for more direction and purpose in life.
Wanting to draw nearer to God.
Needing help with important decisions.
Watch one of the “how-to” videos on FamilySearch.org .
Prepare a brief message about family history work, and share it with your companion.
Imagine that you and your companion are transferred into a new area.
You find the area book in good condition, but you have no people to teach.
What would you do to add people to your teaching pool as rapidly as possible?
Make plans to implement some of these ideas today.
The following idea has been successful for many missionaries and members.
Read and study this idea with your companion.
Help members make a list of friends, relatives, and acquaintances with whom they could share the gospel.
Review this list with the members, and help them prayerfully select someone they would like to prepare to hear the gospel.
Help them set a day by which they will (a) work to have the person or family prepared to be taught in their home or (b) do some other fellowshipping activity to prepare them.
Setting a date gives members a goal and helps them exercise faith.
Help them plan what they will do between now and the date they have set.
Follow up with them regularly to support and encourage them.
Invite them to share their successes and concerns.
Discuss how you can apply this idea in the area in which you are serving.
District Council, Zone Conferences, and Mission Leadership Council
Read and discuss the “Finding through Your Own Efforts” section.
Discuss how these ideas have helped missionaries find people to teach.
On a chalkboard, list other ideas for finding people to teach.
Invite the missionaries to demonstrate their ideas.
Invite the missionaries to set personal goals for improving their finding efforts.
Create a list of finding situations.
Assign each missionary one of the situations.
Allow each missionary five minutes to prepare how he or she would teach the message of the Restoration.
Refer them to “ The Message of the Restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ ” lesson if needed.
Emphasize the importance of keeping the length of the message appropriate to the setting.
For example, missionaries might spend more time teaching in a member’s home than they would teaching someone in the store.
Allow as many missionaries as time permits to teach the message of the Restoration in their assigned situation.
Teach the principles found in the “ Teach When You Find, Find When You Teach ” section.
Assign each missionary to prepare a one-minute message he or she could share in a finding setting.
These messages should be based on the doctrine found in the missionary lessons.
Invite the missionaries to practice sharing their one-minute message with each other.
You may want to set up a variety of finding settings, such as teaching in a member’s home, teaching on a doorstep, teaching on a sidewalk, or contacting a referral.
Have the missionaries practice teaching in each of these settings.
Mission President, His Companion, and His Counselors
Set an example of member-missionary work in your family.
Share your experiences with the missionaries and members.
Counsel with priesthood and auxiliary leaders as to the best way for missionaries to find people to teach in your mission.
Organize missionary devotionals at which you can speak to the people being taught in your mission.
Coordinate with local priesthood leaders to make the meeting available to members who can bring their friends.
As part of these meetings, have recent converts bear testimony and tell their conversion stories before you speak.
Focus your remarks on the message of the Restoration.
Share your family tree, family photos, and family history stories with missionaries, and explain how you use these resources in your finding efforts.
Occasionally go with the missionaries to help them find people to teach.
